mr. speaker , i rise in full support of this resolution and urge my colleagues to support its passage .  asking the administration to appeal the third circuit is the right thing to do .  what is happening on some college campuses is deja vu for those of us who attended colleges in the 1960s and the 1970s .  back then too many college administrators lacked the courage to resist pressure from then what were called left-wing student groups and other professors to ban military recruiters from their campuses .  as a result , students who sought military careers were denied equal access to careers of their choice and our schools became the centers for a wide range of nonsense courses .  the student protestors of the 1960s and 1970s and those of like mind are now the administrators and professors of colleges and universities all over the country .  clearly , they have neither changed their politics nor loathing for the american military .  even at a time when our servicemen and -women are encouraged to defeat the forces of tyranny and terror , they remain the same .  in denying military recruiters equal access to campuses such as harvard law school , college administrators violate the most basic principles of the right to associate and free speech they so profess is precious .  despite large numbers of conservative students attending their institutions , these liberals preach tolerance ; however , these liberal administrators and professors have now become the most intolerant people i know .  the following quote is from a student typical of the attitude of many of these ivory bastions : `` the day my political science department hires a republican and i am allowed to sit in a class without a number of snickers , jeers , and/or dirty looks when president bush 's name is even mentioned is the day i will admit there is progress on today 's campus. '' mr. speaker , congress did not ask for special access for military recruiters .  we are asking for just equal access to groups such as those seeking support for such liberal causes as abortion rights , frivolous lawsuits , same-sex marriage , elimination of the right to private property , gun control , orwellian big government .  mr. speaker , once again activist judges have clearly overstepped their authority , and it is time for the administration to stand and say that the u.s. court of appeals for the third circuit was wrong in their ruling and please seek an appeal .  