mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  this bill includes provisions that are essential to preventing terrorists and other criminals from obtaining fraudulent identification and provides security at our borders .  last year , congress passed legislation based on the recommendations of the 9/11 commission but failed to address vital national security and homeland security issues .  this legislation addresses theses issues and further secures our nation in a post 9/11 world .  h.r. 418 requires states to implement new minimum regulations for state drivers ' license and identification document security standards that must be met within 3 years .  it also establishes a process to enable states to use an existing department of transportation communication system to confirm that drivers ' licenses presented are genuine and validly issued to the person who is carrying them .  the 19 terrorists who attacked america on 9/11 had obtained over 63 valid forms of identification between them to breach our homeland security .  improving document security is necessary to counter threats from foreign terrorism .  this legislation also takes important steps regarding asylum reform .  it prevents terrorists and scam artists from abusing our asylum system and gives immigration judges the tools they need to undercut asylum fraud before it happens .  most importantly , h.r. 418 is critical to the continued construction of the southwest border fence in san diego .  despite efforts by the federal government and the border patrol , california 's coastal commission has objected to and stopped the final phase of fence construction .  completion of the fence will reduce the number of illegal crossings , and will allow the border patrol to re-deploy manpower and resources to other problem areas in san diego .  completion of the 3-mile gap in the fence , known as `` smugglers gulch , '' would be a strong step toward securing our border .  mr. chairman , i made a promise to my constituents to continue to fight for security enhancements to curb illegal immigration and secure our borders .  this legislation is essential to national security and i urge my colleagues to vote in support of h.r. 418 .  