mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i am of course going to vote for this emergency supplemental appropriation because i believe it is absolutely imperative to support our brave men and women in harm 's way in afghanistan and iraq .  i know that even today , 2 years after the onset of operation iraqi freedom , there continues to be strong disagreement across the nation on the decision to remove the brutal hussein regime as well as the planning and prosecution of our military effort in iraq .  however , on this point , i believe there is unanimity .  we , the elected representatives of the american people , have a legislative duty as well as a moral responsibility , to do everything in our power to ensure that our troops have everything they need to defeat the vicious insurgency in iraq , to assist the iraqi people in establishing democracy , and continuing our efforts in afghanistan .  in my view , however , we are not doing enough .  just last week , the new york times reported the experience of marine company e , an experience that , `` was punctuated not only by a lack of armor , but also by a shortage of men and planning that further hampered their efforts in the battle. '' i am pleased , mr. speaker , that this bill includes $ 1.4 billion more than the administration requested for bolstering force protection needs such as add-on armor and night vision goggles , and , in addition , for outfitting troops rotating into iraq and afghanistan .  over the last 4 years , this administration , however , has refused to ask the american people , particularly the wealthiest american people , to make even minimal sacrifices , while we ask our men and women in afghanistan and iraq for some to make the ultimate sacrifice .  the very least , in my opinion , that we can do is give them the resources they need to achieve victory and to return home safely .  i also support , mr. speaker , the important funding in this bill for tsunami relief , foreign assistance , and domestic homeland security as well as the $ 200 million in assistance for the palestinian authority for infrastructure and economic development projects .  those are all worthwhile , necessary , and important projects .  the political reforms taking place in the territories must be accompanied by an end to the poverty and lack of opportunity facing the palestinian people .  that is ultimately how we will defeat terrorism .  finally , however , let me raise , mr. speaker , one objection , among others , to the funding bill : the $ 592 million for a new embassy compound in baghdad .  that is not an emergency .  this funding , mr. speaker , is not only inappropriate in this emergency supplemental appropriation , but it also , in my opinion , is substantially excessive in its expenditures ; not to keep the people safe , we can do that , but to create an embassy in a relatively small country that , hopefully , in the years ahead , will be more peaceful than we have found it .  mr. speaker , i believe that we are at a critical juncture in iraq .  victory is imperative , although it is not certain .  i urge my colleagues to support this conference report .  