mr. speaker , i rise in support of the bill , although i am disgusted with the anti-immigration provisions in it , particularly the things with the driver 's licenses .  mr. speaker , i rise in support of this supplemental appropriations bill , but not without very serious misgivings .  i will vote for this legislation because it contains support for our troops in the field and important tsunami relief .  with american soldiers in harm 's way , i am very reluctant to vote against funding of military operations .  and , having personally seen the devastation in the wake of the tsunami in indonesia , i feel that aid to the victims is critical .  nevertheless , i am disgusted by the process by which this legislation came to the floor and by the immigration-related provisions in the bill .  this is an appropriations bill .  it is not the place to write new immigration law or to include seriously flawed driver 's license provisions .  the republicans are clamoring in the senate about the lack of up or down votes on judges and , today , they denied the house not only an up or down vote on the so-called `` real id '' act , but even a real debate on this issue .  the immigration sections are seriously flawed .  they impose onerous restrictions on foreign nationals in the u.s. , not to mention upon american citizens , and slap a massive unfunded mandate upon the states .  shortly after this legislation takes effect , i can only imagine that , instead of more licensed drivers on the roads , there will be less .  instead of safer roads , we will have more reckless drivers operating completely outside of our laws .  america is a nation of immigrants and our strength is in our diversity .  we are founded upon the people who have come from all corners of the globe and are continually enriched by the unique strengths that they add to our national mosaic .  we must not undermine the careful balance our nation has struck .  i , therefore , strongly oppose these id and immigration-related sections and pledge to fight hard in the future to remove the offensive provisions from the law .  in the end , as a legislator , i must vote on the bill in front of me , and in this instance i must vote for the vital funding contained in this bill .  but , mr. speaker , please know that i will work hard in the day ahead to strike the dangerously flawed sections from the code .  