mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , the republican majority claims that this bill is an effort to prevent terrorists from entering the united states , not an effort to play partisan politics over immigration reform .  i would like to take them at their word , but if this bill really were about keeping terrorists out of the country , why is the republican majority not talking about the real threats of terrorists ' entry ?  why is the republican majority not concerned about the complete lack of an interagency border security plan ?  and why does the president 's budget not fully fund the mandates in the 9/11 intelligence bill , which we passed and he signed a few short months ago ?  why sign a bill if you have no intention of actually funding the items in the bill ?  mr. chairman , just one example : the president 's budget only provides for 210 new border patrol agents , even though the 9/11 intelligence bill authorized up to 2 , 000 .  we have caught at least one suspected terrorist who illegally waded across the rio grande .  why is the republican majority not talking about the failure of this administration to ensure that our frontline officers are able to check suspicious individuals against a comprehensive terrorist watch list ?  more than 3 years after 9/11 , why are more of our frontline personnel using obsolete name-checking systems , that have trouble telling the difference between `` bin laden '' and `` lyndon ?  `` is this real security ?  does this make america safer ?  this bill wholly fails to address these and other critical gaps in our border security .  the bill focuses on people already in the united states instead of keeping terrorists out .  the one aspect of this bill that seems directed at keeping people out of the united states is section 102 .  i understand this section originated from a desire to complete approximately 3 miles of a 14-mile fence along the border near san diego .  let me be clear : i am not against building a fence , but i do not think a fence will keep terrorists out of america .  homeland security expert stephen flynn , who is a retired commander of the u.s. coast guard , and jeane kirkpatrick , senior fellow in national security studies at the council on foreign relations , testified before the senate foreign relations committee that `` great powers have been building great walls throughout history .  the great wall of china and the berlin wall went up at considerable expense and treasure and ultimately failed to block or contain the forces they purported to obstruct. '' mr. flynn says that efforts by the united states to `` protect '' the southwest border , including installing a fence between san diego and tijuana , are similarly fated to fail .  mr. chairman , it is clear that this is not a good bill , and we are completely in opposition to it .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  