mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions )  has cited the 9/11 commission .  after 9/11 , shortly thereafter , i wrote to president bush and introduced legislation that would set the precursor to what ultimately became the department of homeland security of this house of representatives .  during that period of time , i did not have the courtesy of a response from the white house , and the white house opposed setting up inside the administration a cabinet-level homeland security official .  ultimately , they came around .  tim roemer , a former colleague of ours who did serve on the 9/11 commission , and myself and others filed the original legislation leading to the development of the 9/11 independent commission .  and my colleague has cited that commission frequently , but i defy him on the subject of border security , page 186 , to tell me anywhere where it says anything about driver 's licenses .  they talk about creating an interagency center to target illegal entry and human traffickers ; imposing tighter controls on student visas ; taking legal action to prevent terrorists from coming into the united states and to remove those already here ; further increasing the number of immigration agents to fbi joint terrorism task forces ; activating a special court to enable the use of classified evidence .  and i could go on and on and on in the clark working group and the 9/11 report , and not one word , not one word regarding any driver 's licenses .  people that are going to do harm in this nation are not going to do anything other than everything that is fraudulent .  but what we need to know is that there are a variety of people who are significantly opposed to this legislation .  the afl-cio , the american jewish committee , the asian american legal defense and education fund , catholic charities usa , the hebrew immigrant aid society , irish american unity conference , gun owners of america , the american conservative union , the republican liberty caucus , the national association of latino elected officials , the national conference of state legislatures , the council of la raza , the federation of filipino american association , the service employees union ; and there is a list that goes up to 121 organizations that have been shut out because there were no hearings and no opportunity for them to have been heard , other than through the limited debate .  we should stop this business of closing our opportunities and open up the rules .  i oppose this rule .  