mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 418 , the real id act of 2005 .  first , i would like to thank chairman sensenbrenner and the judiciary committee for their leadership on this bill , and for their dedication to securing our borders and protecting americans from terrorists .  my objective throughout debate over h.r. 10 was to get a bill that fully addressed all of our nation 's security concerns .  that means not only reforming how we gather and use intelligence , but also how we fight terrorism at home .  i believe that the final bill that came to the floor fell short .  that 's why i voted against it .  however , the real id act implements crucial provisions that were dropped from h.r. 10 and fixes several glaring holes in our border security .  one of the most important provisions in this legislation asks states to work with the department of homeland security to establish and use standards for drivers ' licenses .  many states already have licenses that are difficult to counterfeit .  other states do n't have stringent safeguards .  some have argued that this bill creates a national id .  it does n't .  i would oppose any bill that did so .  this bill simply requires states to make it harder for someone like muhammad atta to get a driver 's license , and to use that license to carry out terror plans .  as the 9/11 commission noted : `` all but one of the 9/11 hijackers acquired some form of u.s. identification document , some by fraud. '' increased id security will make it more difficult for terrorists to obtain documents through fraud and conceal their identity .  deterring terrorists from receiving state issued ids will make it more likely that they will be detected by law enforcement .  this bill also tightens our asylum system -- a system that has been abused by terrorists with deadly consequences -- by allowing judges to determine whether asylum seekers are truthful .  additionally , the bill will protect the american people by ensuring that grounds for keeping a terrorist out of the country are also grounds for deportation .  incredibly , we have legal justification to prevent an individual from entering the country if they have known terrorist ties , however , under current u.s. law once they set foot inside the border we can not deport them .  this hinders our ability to protect americans from foreign terrorists who have infiltrated the united states .  i think all americans -- and those of us on both sides of the aisle -- can agree that the 9/11 commission identified a number of improvements that will help upgrade our intelligence and enhance america 's security .  this bill provides common sense provisions to help prevent another 9/11-type attack by protecting our borders and disrupting terrorist travel in the united states .  i urge members to vote in favor of the real id act .  