mr. chairman , welcome to the world of mohammed atta : legal visa to come in , 6 months ; driver 's license from florida , 6 years .  like many in this chamber , i was a strong supporter of the intelligence reform legislation passed last year , but when i voted for it , i believed we needed to go further in several areas , including strengthening driver 's license guidelines .  in my home state of connecticut , we take strong steps to ensure the integrity of our identification cards , but we are not perfect .  to receive a driver 's license in connecticut , you must prove you are a legal resident of the state , and you are not a legal resident of the state if you are not legally present in the united states , period .  this is common sense to me .  driver 's licenses are verifiable forms of identification in the united states .  providing such identification cards to people who are illegally present in our country presents serious concerns .  the problem , however , is that not all states maintain this high standard .  that means that someone who is illegally present in the united states and takes advantage of a weak law in another state can obtain a driver 's license and use the document to identify him or herself in the state of connecticut .  they can also use that document to access federal buildings , rent a vehicle or get on a plane .  tightening access to state-issued identification cards is an important and necessary improvement for our homeland security .  many members have raised concerns about the impact of driver 's license provisions in h.r. 418 in our home states .  connecticut governor jodi rell stated , `` in my view , if a noncitizen is lawfully in this country , he or she should be able to obtain a driver 's license for the time frame in which he is lawfully allowed to be here .  conversely , if someone is in this country illegally , he or she should not be able to obtain a driver 's license in connecticut or any other state. '' i could not agree more with her .  frankly , most of our constituents could not agree more with her .  let me raise one other point about this legislation and commend the chairman for including this provision .  a legally present visitor to the united states can obtain a driver 's license in connecticut , as he can in other states .  however , in connecticut we issue licenses for 6 years at a time .  in that time , visitors can leave and come back , whether legally or illegally , an untold number of times .  during subsequent visits , this person can continue to use the license for whatever purpose he or she wants .  this is wrong .  frankly , it is stupid .  requiring a temporary id for persons temporarily in our country is a no-brainer .  i do not think mohammed atta would like it , but , i do not care what he wants .  