mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 418 , the real id act .  the real id act incorporates four of the 9/11 commission recommendations that are necessary to effectively protect our constituents from terrorists seeking to exploit loopholes in our immigration system .  this bill will close several of those dangerous loopholes .  in addition to providing important federal security guidelines for driver 's licenses , the real id act also includes other important homeland security measures , including the deportability of terrorists , preventing terrorists from gaming the asylum system , and implementing border security measures in san diego .  currently , the terrorists and their supporters can be kept out of the united states ; but as soon as they set foot into the u.s. on tourist visas , we can not deport them for many of the very same offenses .  this hinders our ability to protect americans from those alien terrorists who have infiltrated the united states .  h.r. 418 makes aliens deportable for the same terrorist-related offenses as those that would prevent them from being admitted to the united states in the first place .  another deficiency in current law is based on a flawed understanding of how terrorist organizations operate .  the immigration and nationality act now reads that if an alien provides funding or other material support to a terrorist organization , the alien can escape deportation if they can show that he did not know that the funds or support would further the organization 's terrorist activity ; i.e. , his donation did not immediately go to buying explosives .  as kenneth mckune , former associate coordinator for counterterrorism at the state department , explained , `` given the purposes , organizational structure , and clandestine nature of foreign terrorist organizations , it is highly likely that any material support to these organizations will ultimately inure to the benefit of their criminal , terrorist functions , regardless of whether such support was ostensibly intended to support nonviolent , nonterrorist activities. '' money given to terrorist organizations is fungible .  senator diane feinstein has rightly stated that `` i simply do not accept that so-called humanitarian works by terrorist groups can be kept separate from their other operations .  i think the money will ultimately go to bombs and bullets rather than babies , or , because money is fungible , it will free up other funds to be used on terrorist activities. '' the real id act is written so that an alien who provides funds or other material support to a terrorist organization would be deportable unless he did not know and should not reasonably have known that the organization was a terrorist organization .  mr. chairman , i urge the support and passage of h.r. 418 .  