mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  much has been and will be said about this bill 's impact on making it more difficult for terrorists to get identification to conduct their terrorist activities and the reform of the asylum laws and the plugging of the fence south of san diego .  however , there is an issue of public safety involved in this bill as well .  yesterday , a criminal complaint was unsealed in the federal court in chicago which showed that there was a huge scam in getting wisconsin driver 's licenses for illegal aliens to drive trucks .  and in at least one instance , the case of nasko nazov , who is an illegal alien from macedonia , 3 days after he obtained this driver 's license , he killed four people , a family of four , in a truck-car accident in baileyton , tennessee .  now , the criminal complaint says that the scam worked as follows : foreign nationals paid sponsors in chicago up to $ 2 , 000 for help in getting a commercial driver 's license .  several wisconsin residents were paid a one-time fee for use of their addresses .  the clients were transported from chicago to milwaukee via van to banks in milwaukee , where they used the wisconsin addresses to open checking accounts .  after the checks were printed , the clients brought them to the division of motor vehicles as proof of their residency required to take their written tests .  in wisconsin , the written tests were given in english , spanish , and russian .  people who spoke other languages had to bring their own interpreters .  some of the interpreters helped the clients cheat on the tests .  in some cases , the sponsors accompanied the clients to a private facility that has a contract with the state to conduct road tests .  employees there accepted payments that ensured that the clients passed the test whether or not they knew how to drive a truck .  now , because wisconsin does not require proof of legal residency in the united states in order to get a driver 's license , whether it is a regular license or a commercial driver 's license , mr. nazov got a license validly issued by the wisconsin department of motor vehicles , and 3 days later killed a family of four on a highway in tennessee with a truck he did not know how to drive .  now , legislation like this would have been a key move in preventing an illegal alien from getting this driver 's license , a driver 's license he could not have gotten in the state of illinois .  i think this proves that there is more involved to this than border security .  there is an issue of public safety .  and if you do not believe that , ask the family of the people who were killed in tennessee .  mr. speaker , i submit for the record the story from the milwaukee journal sentinel entitled `` tennessee deaths bring new charge. '' tennessee deaths bring new charge : trucker illegally obtained license here a man who got a commercial truck driver 's license illegally in wisconsin killed a family of four on a tennessee freeway , then lied about his actions , according to a criminal compliant unsealed tuesday in federal court in chicago .  nasko nazov , an illegal immigrant from macedonia , is charged with lying to a federal grand jury during an offshoot of `` operation safe road , '' the federal investigation that ultimately led to criminal charges against former illinois gov .  george ryan .  the investigation also revealed that in wisconsin at least 600 people from other states cheated on written exams , bribed officials administering road tests or lied about their residency to get truck driver 's licenses , according to court records .  if convicted , nazov , 45 , of downers grove , ill. , faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison , a fine of up to $ 500 , 000 and deportation .  he also is wanted in tennessee on reckless homicide charges , said randall sanborn , spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office in chicago .  nazov -- who has never lived in wisconsin -- received a wisconsin commercial driver 's license on march 4 , 2003 , according to court records .  three days later he caused a fatal wreck on i-81 near baileyton , tenn. , according to media reports .  edward dean armstrong iii ; his wife , melissa ; his 10-year-old daughter , brittany ; and his 6-year-old son , dean , all were killed .  the family was returning home to virginia after visiting family in knoxville , tenn. , according to the reports .  their 1998 saturn was stuck in traffic because of an earlier accident .  nazov , who was driving a tractor-trailer , first hit a pickup , then plowed into the armstrongs ' car , shoving it under another large truck .  `` we believe there are up to 1 , 000 suspect licenses , and this shows the risk inherent in each of those , '' u.s. attorney steve biskupic said tuesday .  a milwaukee investigation parallel to the one in chicago is continuing , he said .  both probes center on foreign nationals .  according to court records in the chicago case , the scheme worked like this : the foreign nationals paid sponsors in the chicago area up to $ 2 , 000 for help getting a commercial driver 's license .  several wisconsin residents were paid a one-time fee for use of their addresses .  clients were transported from chicago via van to banks in milwaukee , where they used the wisconsin addresses to open checking accounts .  after the checks were printed , the clients brought them to the division of motor vehicles as the proof of residency required to take their written tests .  in wisconsin , the written tests are given in english , spanish or russian .  people who speak other languages must bring their own interpreters .  some of the interpreters helped the clients cheat on the tests .  in some cases , the sponsors accompanied the clients to a private facility that has a contract with the state to conduct road tests .  employees there accepted payments that ensured the clients passed their tests , whether or not they knew how to drive a truck .  the wisconsin rules for licensing are less strict than those in illinois .  there , written tests are offered only in english , and translators are not allowed .  road tests in illinois must be conducted at state offices , not private facilities .  nazov listed an address in the 4200 block of w. loomis road in greenfield on his driver 's license application , according to the charging documents .  he testified before a grand jury in june 2004 that he had lived there for a few months with his girlfriend .  he told federal investigators he remembered only her first name , julie , and that she has since left the country .  he could not provide them with a description of the building , according to the documents .  the owner of the building said he had never rented an apartment to nazov or to a woman named julie .  the owner also found letters from the wisconsin department of transportation addressed to nazov and four other people at the building , according to the documents .  the owner , who told investigations he had not authorized anyone to use the address , has not been charged .  nazov , who speaks macedonian , took his written test with the help of an interpreter , according to court records .  