mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from mississippi for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , as the only member of congress with a background in immigration and experience in actually defending our nation 's borders , and after being here for 8 years in the house , i am profoundly disappointed at how much we talk about this issue and how little we do when it comes to immigration .  prior to coming to congress , i served for 26 1/2 years in the united states border patrol , so i know firsthand about the effort to protect our borders and how to keep america secure .  since coming to congress , i have heard a lot about how we need to crack down on illegal immigration in this country , but have seen very little action when it comes to providing adequate funding for the kinds of programs that i know work in dealing with the problem of illegal immigration .  for instance , just this week , with the release of the president 's budget , as my colleague mentioned , last august we were tough on the issue of immigration by saying we wanted 10 , 000 new border patrol agents and we wanted to create 40 , 000 new detention beds .  the administration in their budget wants to hire 210 border patrol agents .  they are silent on the issue of detention .  the administration also has proposed zeroing out very important programs to communities that deal with undocumented aliens , programs like the state criminal alien assistance program , the state prosecutors program , all zeroed out in this budget .  mr. chairman , the reason i am going to oppose this legislation is because i am sick and tired of coming here and talking , talking about the issue .  i am sick and tired of hearing arguments on who is going to do what .  just last monday , i was with some of my former colleagues at a port of entry in el paso , and they were asking me what kind of immigration reform would come out of this effort .  regrettably , mr. chairman , i told them , look , we said we were going to fund 10 , 000 agents ; we got 210 .  that is why i am going to vote against this legislation , and i urge my colleagues to do the same .  let us have a real and earnest debate on what needs to be done to protect this country .  