mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i am pleased to bring to the house for its consideration the conference report on h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror and tsunami relief .  the conference agreement includes a total of $ 82 billion .  the vast majority of these funds are to support our troops in iraq and afghanistan .  for that reason , it is critical that we move this package quickly .  it also provides needed assistance to the victims of the tsunami .  during our conference with the senate , chairman cochran and i agreed that the final agreement should come in at or below the president 's request and relatively free of extraneous items .  the conference report before you has met both of these very critical parameters .  we did our very best to keep the package clean , and by and large , we were successful with that .  we have funded our foreign policy priorities while still preserving congressional prerogatives where appropriate .  with that said , the conference report provides a total of $ 75.9 billion for defense-related expenditures , roughly $ 921 million over the president 's request .  the additions over the request are for force protection , and increasing the survivability of troops in the field .  in addition to the defense-related spending , the conference report provides a reduction of $ 1.5 billion in foreign assistance from the president 's request .  the conference agreement also includes $ 635 million for increased border security enforcement .  this includes 500 additional border patrol agents and increased detention space .  we have also included $ 656 million for tsunami disaster relief .  finally , the bill includes much of the real id act of 2005 , which was included in the house-passed version of the bill .  the provisions on asylum , border infrastructure , and driver 's license standards are included .  each of these provisions will greatly enhance the security of our borders .  all of these provisions reflect agreements negotiated by relevant authorizing committees .  i especially want to thank chairman sensenbrenner , chairman davis and their staffs for getting this measure before the congress in a timely fashion .  i urge my colleagues to support this much needed support for our troops .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  