mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental wartime appropriations act for fy 2005 .  my opposition to this bill does not mean that i do not support our troops .  i wholeheartedly support our troops and believe that we should fully fund our troops so that they have the necessary equipment to ensure their safety .  also incorporated into this bill is funding for tsunami relief efforts for affected southeast asian countries .  having gone to sri lanka and personally seen the devastation , i know how important our relief efforts are for these countries .  sadly , i 'm opposing h.r. 1268 because it includes the real id act of 2005 .  the real id act of 2005 would deny drivers ' licenses to immigrants , and slam the doors on refugees seeking asylum from persecution .  the real , bad , id act has nothing to do with supporting our troops , let alone national security .  it is such a shame that republicans had to incorporate the real id act in the iraq supplemental and tsunami relief when it has nothing to do with these two pressing issues .  this is an unprecedented move on the part of the republican leadership and this concerns me .  the real id act , h.r. 418 will not make us safer .  what h.r. 418 will do is undermine several key security features that were dealt with responsibly in the intelligence reform legislation which was based on the 9-11 commission recommendations .  if the republicans and this administration really want to strengthen national security , they should start by providing full funding for the department of homeland security , particularly the security improvements authorized in the intelligence reform bill .  yet the president 's 2006 budget did not include funding for 10 , 000 new border guards , 40 , 000 new detention beds to hold people awaiting deportation , and 4 , 000 new immigration inspectors as the bill dictates .  the administration merely funds 210 new border patrol agents .  as the proud daughter of immigrants , i am pleased to be serving my country as a member of congress .  it is a great honor to be giving back to america , a country that has given my family so much .  like millions of immigrants , my parents came here in search of the american dream and to give their children the opportunity to secure a promising future .  again , i am outraged and saddened that republicans are using the pretext of national security to attack immigrants who pose no real threat to our safety .  america is a country built by immigrants , and we should remain a country that is open and welcoming to those seeking freedom .  the u.s. has always been a beacon of hope and we must continue to guard the light of liberty for those who are oppressed or displaced .  