mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding the time .  mr. speaker , i am here to support the rule and encourage this body to move forward with legislation that we have already debated many times in the last congress and legislation that really solves a problem .  i do suggest that using terms like `` immigrant hater '' does not help this debate .  this is about border security .  it is not about those of us who reach out to help immigrants , particularly those immigrants who are here legally and lawfully all the time .  it is not even about whether they are disadvantaged by people who are here illegally .  this is about three significant border security issues .  one is id and clearly id issued by states is important and significant .  the bipartisan commission that looked into 9/11 dealt specifically with this issue , something that has been overlooked in much of our debate now , the almost-sanctified 9/11 commission .  that commission said travel documents are as important as weapons and urged the congress to do something about travel documents that did not reflect the true status of individuals .  in fact , on september 11 , driver 's licenses became weapons of mass destruction .  in the united states today , a driver 's license is all it takes to transfer money to a bank account , to enter a federal building or other vulnerable facility , to board a train or an airplane .  lax standards and loopholes in the current issuance processes allow terrorists to obtain driver 's licenses , often multiple licenses from different states .  in southwest missouri , where i am from and right in the middle of the country , of the 1 , 387 people who were detained by the office there who were illegally in the country in the year that ended september 30 , 50 percent of those people had a state-issued driver 's license or state-issued id card , not at all difficult to get .  of the 19 terrorists on 9/11 , they had five dozen driver 's licenses between them and used those driver 's licenses to get on the planes that crashed into the world trade center , the pentagon , and a field in pennsylvania .  this act would require identity documents to expire at the same time a visa expires , so that someone who is here on an appropriate 6-month visa , as , in fact , much to our amazement , some of the 9/11 terrorists were , are not given a 6-years ' driver 's license when the documents they do produce say they can legally be here for 6 months .  this bill also tightens the process of applying for asylum in the united states to close loopholes in the system that have been taken advantage of by terrorists .  this issue was widely debated on the floor last year .  the example i gave was the terrorist who was here from jordan who had bombed an international school in jordan full of american kids .  well , that terrorist had not committed a crime in this country and under the current law was allowed to stay here unsupervised in a country full of american kids .  certainly that is not acceptable .  that person should have had to have a hearing .  this legislation requires that .  i urge that we adopt the rule and the legislation .  