mr. speaker , i rise today to voice my strong support for h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief .  this essential legislation will support and defend america 's values both at home and abroad .  our troops serving in iraq will have the necessary tools to continue their rebuilding efforts in iraq and to continue the war on terror .  at home , the real id provisions will strengthen our nation 's driver 's license laws , providing each citizen with another layer of security .  until now , terrorists could easily exploit weak driver licensing laws and obtain fake documents .  with a license in hand , terrorists were better able to blend in , avoid detection , and harm our nation 's citizens .  this is exactly what several of the 9/11 terrorists did , using drivers ' licenses to board airplanes and murder thousands of innocent americans on september 11 , 2001 .  we in congress have been working on ways to prevent our nation from experiencing another terrorist attack by establishing stronger and more secure national programs .  stronger driver 's license standards made possible by the real id provisions will be another step towards american security .  the real id provisions will close dangerous gaps that remain in our current licensing law and that allow terrorists to abuse our asylum and driver 's license systems .  the new law will protect innocent americans by setting up national driver 's license standards , networking state motor vehicle data bases , and linking visa and license expirations .  in 2003 , the former attorney general of virginia , jerry kilgore , and i worked together on the driver 's license integrity act .  that legislation required non-immigrant aliens to show their visas when applying for state identification and tied the expiration date of the identification to that of the visa .  due to mr. kilgore 's leadership on this issue , the commonwealth of virginia was one of the first states to clamp down on terrorists ' abuse of the trust that a driver 's license conveys .  today , i am pleased to see virginia 's driver 's license integrity act provisions in this piece of legislation before us in the house of representatives .  since the beginning of the war on terror , congress has fought daily to ensure that our nation never again suffers at the hands of terrorists .  the provisions in this bill provide us with more weapons in our arsenal against terrorism .  i urge passage of this legislation .  