mr. speaker , i rise in support of the war supplemental appropriations act but must voice my incredible misgivings for what the republican majority has attached to legislation that should solely be about how we provide for our brave men and women in harm 's way in iraq and afghanistan .  there is much in this bill to be proud of .  our military , despite the job of the civilian brass and this congress , have been performing heroically .  they have accomplished much more than we could have ever hoped for , and if any fault needs to be assigned it is to the policy makers , and not to those in uniform .  however , i am ashamed that this body has taken something as important as securing our troops , and attached a hastily considered immigration provision that will result in massive unfunded mandates being passed on to our states .  i am ashamed that the conference committee removed language that would have created a truman-style commission to examine war profiteering , largely to ensure that this administration would not be embarrassed .  finally , i am ashamed that this congress has turned its back on a promise made by our president to the palestinian authority to help improve the situation of the palestinian people and further the cause of peace for all in the middle east .  i am concerned that the immigration provisions will force our great nation to turn our back on the thousands of political and human rights asylum seekers who look toward america as their last and best hope .  the real id act will force the most vulnerable to have their torturers corroborate their tales of persecution .  i understand that we must protect our borders , and i understand that changes must be made to keep out those that seek to do us harm .  but we should not hastily foreclose the dream and promise of america because of fear .  we should not send back asylum seekers back to their torturers .  under these standards , iraqis seeking to escape the rape rooms of saddam hussein would have been sent back to the ba'athist prisons if they fled iraq without the proper documentation .  i am also dismayed that rather than seeking to be responsible stewards of the public 's trust , the republican majority in charge of congress once again decided to ignore its oversight responsibilities .  it seems that rather than doing our oversight job as a separate and equal branch of government , the gop leadership would rather save the bush administration and corporate ceos some embarrassment .  i am old enough to remember the truman commission .  i remember that sen .  truman went against a democratic administration , and saved our military and our tax payers billions of dollars in waste and fraud .  i can not understand why we do not do the same .  my friends on the other side of the aisle should be ashamed of the fact that mr. waxman  and i have probably done more on this front from the minority , than has anyone with a gavel .  reconstructing iraq and afghanistan is too important not to get it right , but confronted yet again with evidence of massive fraud and egregious war profiteering , my republican colleagues are again choosing to bury their heads in the sand , plug their ears , and turn out the lights on our duty .  finally , this bill , by intention or not , has the potential of undoing all the progress that the middle east peace process has made since the death of yasser arafat .  mr. speaker , the new president of the palestinian authority is in an almost untenable position .  in order for palestinian democracy to succeed over radical terrorism , president abbas must be provided with the resources to open hospitals , create jobs , arm a police force , build jails , and take the fight to the terrorists .  president bush recognized this .  he made a statement asking for $ 200 million to support a nascent middle eastern democracy .  instead of allowing president abbas to use american aid to build his security forces to take on terror , we instead set him up for failure .  my friends , if you want to see hamas win the upcoming municipal elections ; if you want to see the peace process come to an abject halt ; if you want to see more dead young israelis and young palestinians you should support this language .  it surprises me that the only thing that this congress is capable of bucking and embarrassing this administration on is the prospect of peace .  i hope , for the sake of peace , we can correct this colossal error in judgment and that the president and the state department speak out against congress ' ill-advised policy making on this most tragic conflict .  