mr. chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  talked about , in 1990 , when he came to me while i was still in the military asking me about landing mats to put up for the border .  he and i have actually been down there welding to get that up .  why ?  why would we do that ?  take this floor , if this was a farmer 's field and you had a single strand of wire that was lying on the ground , that is what separated the united states and mexico .  we had truckloads of drugs coming across in a 100-mile sector that we could not stop .  in 1 year , there were a number of rapes and a number of murders by the coyotes and people on the u.s. side of people trying to get across .  when my colleague arranged to put up that fence , it stopped all of it .  now , there are all kinds of ways in which you can stop something here in this body .  we can have hearings and say we are going to do this or that , but with the fence area , these 7 miles , another way is to waive the environmental things .  the gentleman from california ( mr. hunter )  also showed that president clinton did this .  if we do not do this , my colleagues , we will not get it done .  and it will help security .  documents that we have captured from al qaeda show that they consider the border vulnerable , with cells in mexico itself .  and so it is not just sealing off the border for security , but it is other things too .  in san diego , in california , we have about 800 , 000 illegals in k-through-12 education .  use half of that , use 400 , 000 .  that is $ 2 billion a year out of california .  that does not account for the $ 1.5 million a day for the school lunch .  now , i can not stop those kids .  i have been in those schools .  there is no way i would take that lunch away from those critters .  but we need to secure our border to stop the flow coming in .  if we know , with the bill of the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  , who is there legally , it is much easier to tell who is there illegally .  so i ask my colleagues to give this support because we really need to complete this .  