mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , in response to some of the comments that were made by the gentleman from massachusetts , i want to share with my colleagues some facts .  the class action fairness act contains several provisions specifically designed to ensure that class members , not their attorneys , class members , not their attorneys , are the primary beneficiaries of the class-action process .  for example , the act , number one , requires that judges carefully review all coupon settlements and limit attorney 's fees paid in such settlements to the value actually received by the class members .  second , it requires careful scrutiny of `` net loss '' settlements in which the class members end up losing money .  thirdly , it bans settlements that award some class members a larger recovery just because they live closer to the court .  lastly , it allows federal courts to maximize the benefits of class-action settlements by requiring that unclaimed coupons or settlement funds be donated to charitable organizations .  in addition , the bill would require that notice of proposed settlements be provided to appropriate state and federal officials , such as state attorneys general .  let me also address one other issue raised , and i think this is very important .  this myth is being circulated that the class action fairness act would move all or virtually all class actions to federal courts , overwhelming federal judges and denying state courts the ability to resolve local disputes .  well , a recent study examined class actions in the state courts of connecticut , delaware , maine , massachusetts , new york and rhode island , to determine what effect the bill would have on the class actions filed in those respective states .  here is what they found in regard to the state of massachusetts .  sixty-one percent , 30 out of 49 of the reported class actions , would have presumedly remained in state court .  at least 10 of the 19 massachusetts cases that would be affected by this bill , the class action fairness act , involved nationwide classes , cases primarily involving citizens living in other states .  