mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , we hear all this hoopla about these coupon settlements , but we do not hear any suggestion as to what to do about them .  there are a lot of situations where corporations are ripping people off for small amounts of money .  for example , if a person at a checkout counter calibrates the machine to just cheat one out of a few cents , what is one 's recovery in that case ?  just a few cents .  and the only way one can stop that is with a class action .  but they would suggest there is no point in bringing the class action ; as long as they did not rip them off for too much , they ought to get away with it .  furthermore , a lot of these coupon settlements are in federal courts anyway , so there is not going to be much change .  but some of these coupon cases are the only way that we can rein in corporate abuse .  but this bill just increases complications in a gratuitous way .  it took a half an hour for the proponents to explain when it is a class action and when it is not a class action .  in normal cases they file it in state court .  either they certify it or not , and then one goes forward .  there is not much complication .  but this invites mischief .  whether it is really a class action or not , remove it anyway , and let the federal courts mess around with it and mess around with it and mess around with it .  they may never get their day in court .  and if they do not certify it , what happens to one 's case ?  they may not be able to get back to state court .  so the fact that they did not certify a class action will deny one the right to even have their day in court .  this complicates venue .  they do not know where the case is going to be heard .  it could be that an injury happens in one state , they have corporations in that state involved , they have state plaintiffs , and here one has to go chasing around , trying to figure out where they are going to be .  the attorneys general across the states , 47 attorneys general in states and territories , have come out against the bill because it puts the attorneys general in the same crack .  they do not know where the case is going to be heard .  if they bring a state action in state court , they may get removed .  some of the states have better wage laws , civil rights laws , sometimes consumer protections , and if the attorneys general want to come in to protect their own citizens in their own states , they ought to have that right and not get jerked around to federal court .  finally , mr. speaker , some federal courts are more clogged up than state courts .  some in the same area , the state courts are more clogged up than the federal courts .  why do we have to always go into federal court on these cases rather than have some kind of choice ?  every time we have a criminal case , it will take preference over the civil cases .  and in some cases where we have some terrorist cases or a backlog of federal cases , one may never get to hear their case in federal court .  if we want consumers to get timely justice , we need to defeat this bill , and i hope that is what we do .  