once again , mr. speaker , we have before us a bill that would sweep aside generations of state laws that protect consumers .  citizens will be denied their basic right to use their own state courts to file class action lawsuits against companies -- even if there are clear violations of state labor laws or state civil rights laws .  this bill comes after a lobbying campaign costing business interests tens of millions of dollars .  well , that was money well spent .  with this sweeping legislation , corporations will have free reign to avoid responsibility for the wrongs they commit .  it is just shameful that the victims of corporate misconduct do not have the same level of influence here in the halls of congress .  let 's not forget the people who died as a result of defective tires manufactured by firestone .  what about countless individuals who died as a result of the tobacco industry 's failure to disclose the risks of cigarettes ?  well , if it is any indication of this bill 's intent -- tobacco is already celebrating this week .  stocks are up and the industry is glowing .  let me quote their take on this bill , `` the practical effect of the change could be that many cases will never be heard given how overburdened federal judges are. '' plainly that is the goal of the bill .  the goal is to ensure that legitimate plaintiffs are denied any recovery at all .  and that whatever recovery they do receive is delayed as long as possible .  i have spent decades in courtrooms and i can tell my colleagues -- from my own experience -- that justice delayed is justice denied .  the doors to the courthouse will be locked shut .  and this republican leadership is handing the key to corporate america .  with complete disregard for precedent-setting individual and class action litigation , the republican leadership is determined to destroy america 's civil justice system , eliminating protections for the poor and powerless .  this bill is a disgrace to the historic victories in courts across the country -- to expand consumer rights , protect our environment , and strengthen workers ' rights .  and there has been complete disregard for the legislative process in the house .  while we have had hearings and markups on class action legislation in the past , this bill is quite complex and very different than previous versions .  the fact that the other chamber has already approved this matter in no way justifies a `` rush to judgment '' in the house , when so many important rights are at stake .  class actions have addressed the looting of company after company by corporate insiders , whose brazen misconduct and self-dealing defrauded creditors and investors of billions of dollars , and stripped employees and retirees of their livelihood and life savings .  yet if this bill becomes law , the victims of those practices will face new obstacles in their efforts to call those executives to task .  this bill is not about protecting plaintiffs .  it 's not about protecting the public .  it 's about protecting large corporations whose conduct has been egregious .  it 's about protecting the powerful at the expense of the powerless .  and to prevent people from banding together as a class to challenge that power in the only way they can .  we must also see this bill in its proper context .  it is part of an ambitious and multi-pronged campaign by major corporations to evade their obligations to society .  under the guise of `` deregulation '' we 're watching the wholesale dismantling of health and safety standards , environmental protections , and longstanding limits on concentration of ownership within the media and other key industries .  today 's bill completes this picture .  it takes aim at the civil justice system that exists to correct the wrongs that the government can not or will not address .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this blatant effort to muzzle the courts .  this bill is but the latest in a series of assaults by those on the other side attacking the ability of individuals to seek relief from the courts .  and it is also but the latest in a series of assaults on states ' rights to provide legal remedies for harm suffered by their citizens .  we can not allow them to do it , mr. speaker .  i urge my colleagues to vote `` no . '' 