madam speaker , i yield myself as much time as i may consume .  the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher )  is a dear friend of mine , and i merely want to take one observation that he made , that this is just a procedural process and that there is no substantive changes , but i say to him , if the legal system is rigged and the rules are stacked against you , you never have to get to the substance ; you do not even get your day in court .  that is the problem with this bill .  it is a procedural process that prevents people from bringing actions in state courts , and we are sending it to the federal courts when both the federal judiciary has spoken against this measure and the state judges have spoken against this measure as well .  i think that that should be a very instructive criticism against this bill .  the proposal before us is opposed by both state and federal judiciaries .  it is opposed by the national council of state legislatures ; consumers and public interest groups , including public citizen , the consumers federation of america , the consumers union , the united states pirg ; a coalition of environmental advocates ; health advocates , including the campaign for tobacco free kids ; civil rights groups such as the alliance for justice , the leadership conference on civil rights , the national association for the advancement of colored people , and the lawyers ' committee for civil rights and labor such as the american federation of labor-congress of industrial organizations , afl-cio .  this legislation is also opposed by many of the nation 's editorial boards in the newspaper business .  a new york times editorial board just this weekend wrote this about the measure that is before the house today : `` instead of narrowly focusing on real abuses of the system , the measure reconfigures the civil justice system to achieve a significant rollback of corporate accountability and people 's rights .  the main impact of the bill , which has the sort of propagandistic title normally assigned to such laws , the class action fairness act , will be to funnel nearly all major class action lawsuits out of state courts and into already overburdened federal courts .  that will inevitably make it harder for americans to pursue legitimate claims successfully against companies that violate state consumer , health , civil rights and environmental protection laws. '' madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  