mr. speaker , given the large number of suits already filed and the fact that every former vioxx taker in america is already a proposed class member in numerous class actions , it is unlikely there will be many more class actions after the legislation is enacted .  it is bad legislation to have something pass that covers all class actions in the country for all time and name one specific product or one specific company in the legislation .  it is irrelevant anyway .  now , let me tell you the kinds of cases that are affected by this legislation .  take a look at the `` class action wheel of fortune '' on this chart .  it will tell you what we are doing here today .  you have got the case against ameritech .  ameritech , the attorneys for the plaintiffs got $ 16 million in attorneys fees .  what did the plaintiffs they represent get ?  five-dollar phone cards .  the premier cruise line case , the lawyers got almost $ 1 million ; the consumers got a $ 30- to $ 40-off coupon for their next cruise .  the computer monitor litigation case , the lawyers , $ 6 million in fees ; the consumers , a $ 13 rebate against your next future purchase of the alleged defective product .  register.com , $ 650 , 000 for the lawyers ; $ 5 for the consumers .  kb toys , $ 1 million for the lawyers ; 30 percent off your selected product in a unadvertised 1-week sale at kb toys .  poland spring water , $ 1.35 million for the lawyers ; a coupon for more of the allegedly defective water for the consumers .  my favorite case , however , is this one , the chase manhattan bank case , where the lawyers got $ 4 million in attorneys fees ; the plaintiffs , a check , we have got one right here , for 33 cents .  but there was a catch , because if you wanted to accept the 33 cents , you had to use a 34-cent postage stamp to send in your acceptance notice .  how is that for a bargain for you ?  and how about the $ 22 million case that president bush cited last week against thompson electronics ?  the lawyers got $ 22 million in attorneys fees ; the plaintiffs , one of whom was there , got a $ 25- to $ 50-off coupon to buy more of what ?  the very television set that she was complaining was defective in the first place .  it is a racket , it is extortionate .  the people of the country know it .  when they are asked the question , who benefits from our class action industry today , 47 percent say it is the plaintiffs ' lawyers ; 20 percent say it is the lawyers for the companies ; 67 percent of our public recognizes it is the lawyers who benefit from this system .  it is time we change it .  this bill does just that .  it protects american consumers and makes sure that they get justice by examining these ridiculous coupon settlements .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support this legislation , defeat the motion to commit , and send the bill to the president , and starting very soon , we will have justice for american consumers .  