mr. speaker , i rise to encourage u.s. support of the people of lebanon in their struggle to free themselves from syrian occupation .  syria has illegitimately held control over its neighbor for 25 years , a situation which can no longer be permitted to continue .  syria has proved itself an utterly destructive force upon its neighbor , lebanon .  syria has systematically deprived the lebanese people of their many liberties .  it has illegally extended the terms of pro-syrian officials within the lebanon government by altering the lebanese constitution .  it has and continues to intimidate lebanese dissenters with threats of political persecution .  lebanese citizens with views not in keeping with syrian authorities have been arrested , kidnapped , tortured and in some instances even killed .  the lebanese press has been effectively stifled in order to repress anti-syrian sentiment .  finally , and most reprehensively , syria has allowed and even funded the continued existence of the terrorist group hezbollah within the southern shebaa when it first sent troops to help quell the lebanese civil war , syria claimed its purpose was to stabilize the country .  instead syria has consistently prevented lebanon from becoming the stable and prosperous state for which many lebanese patriots , including the late former prime minister rafik hariri , have toiled .  today the people of lebanon are taking to the streets , crying out for their freedom from this foreign oppression .  as an american of lebanese descent , my heart is with them .  my ancestors came to this country in search of greater freedom .  now , as i watch the lebanese freedom movement , i am filled with the hope that the citizens of my country of origin will soon have the chance to claim the liberties for which my ancestors sought in coming to the united states .  consequently , mr. speaker , i urge my fellow members to pass h. con .  res. 32 in support of the lebanese struggle for independence .  syria must be made to know in no uncertain terms that we expect the complete withdrawal of its troops from lebanon , the immediate dissolution of hezbollah , and the immediate termination of interference within lebanon 's government .  