mr. chairman , before yielding to the gentleman from texas ( mr. cuellar )  , i yield myself such time as i may consume because he is going to address education .  i would like to make it clear that education is one of those areas in our budget where we have made a decided improvement and have a notable advantage over the republican resolution .  our budget resolution rejects their education cuts .  our budget resolution provides $ 4.5 billion more for next year , 2006 , and over the next 5 years $ 41 billion more than their budget resolution .  this kind of funding , this level of funding , can not only preserve current education programs such as vocational education , funded at $ 1.3 billion which the president and their resolution would simply exterminate , wipe out , it can also support increases in priority programs like special education .  the additional funding we are providing can also help close the gap in funding for no child left behind , $ 12 billion below this year and next year below where it was authorized to be when the act was passed .  our budget rejects the reconciliation instructions to the education committee calling for $ 21 billion in savings over 5 years .  we do not know where that is coming from .  we do not include the president 's student loan proposals that would raise loan fees .  we do not end the students ' ability to consolidate their student loans at fixed interest rates .  we do not eliminate perkins loans , for goodness sake , and we do not force colleges to repay prior perkins contributions .  we do provide the funding to raise the pell grant , not just $ 100 every year for 5 years but $ 100 every year for 10 years .  the bush administration and the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  and the republicans claim that is provided for , but that can only be funded in their budget through reconciliation ; that is , through taking it out of other student loan programs .  we have a decidedly different approach to education , a much greater emphasis on education .  it is one of those things in our budget which we have singled out as deserving of additional funding .  even though we keep everything at the level of current services , a few things we plus-up to the detriment of other things , but education is one of those things we emphasize and plus-up .  