mr. chairman , happy birthday to my colleague .  let me resoundingly support the congressional black caucus ' budget , and let me ask my colleagues what better budget to have than the one that saves $ 27.5 billion more in interest than the republican budget ?  i can not imagine that my good friend on the floor of the house would not welcome the opportunity of putting that interest into the needs of the american people .  we need affordable housing .  we can go to any city , any rural community , and not see people standing in line to access affordable housing .  section 8 vouchers , which allows affordable housing for families of four and five and six hard-working americans , there are 25 , 000 people on the list in houston , texas alone .  millions of people are still on the list because they do not have affordable housing .  finally i congratulate the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  and the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  on this budget because it also invests in homeland security .  with all of the talk of the republican budget , they do not fund immigration and customs officers .  they do not fund border patrol officers to secure our borders and provide for internal security .  the cbc budget does .  the cbc budget puts $ 150 million in for border and customs needs .  this is a strong budget for the american people .  vote for the congressional black caucus budget .  save $ 27.5 billion in interest .  i think you will like that in your pocket and in your savings account !  mr. chairman , i rise today to offer another choice to those americans who are disheartened by the current budget proposal being offered by this republican congress .  today , we offer them the choice of accepting the congressional black caucus 's , cbc , alternative budget .  truly , it is the budget of hope and compromise ; it is the budget that closes the disparities in america 's communities .  the cbc alternative budget provides both social and economic equality for americans , instead of allowing the richest americans to pay fewer taxes at the expense of vital programs needed by lower and middle class americans .  surely , this administration and the republican leadership in congress will pay lip service to the needs of these americans , but this budget does more .  it demonstrates in writing that under our current budgetary situation it is possible to maintain necessary social programs while practicing true fiscal responsibility .  the cbc alternative budget is particularly strong in its support of educational programs , the greatest key we possess to close disparities in our society .  this administration and the majority in this congress promised to leave no child behind , but clearly they have reneged on their promise .  the republican budget eliminates 48 education programs that receive $ 4.3 billion this year .  these eliminations include wiping out $ 1.3 billion for all vocational education programs , $ 522 million for all education technology programs , and $ 29 million for all civic education programs .  the republican budget eliminates other large programs including the even start family literacy program , $ 225 million , and state grants for safe and drug-free schools and communities , $ 437 million .  in fact , the president 's budget cuts 2006 funding the cbc alternative budget in stark contrast provides a much needed boost of $ 23.9 billion to education and training , including $ 2.5 billion for school construction .  the cbc alternative fully funds the fiscal year 2006 authorization level for no child left behind , nclb and provides for an expansion of the head start program .  in addition , the cbc alternative doubles federal funding for historically black colleges and universities and hispanic serving institutions ; again closing the disparities often witnessed in higher education .  in that regard the cbc alternative increases the pell grant allotment for college students .  because as we all know , a mind , any mind , is a terrible thing to waste .  clearly , the cbc alternative emphasizes this ideal more than the republican budget resolution .  few things are more important to americans than their home and their communities .  while the president and this republican congress take steps to make it harder for average americans to reach homeownership , the cbc alternative invests heavily in this vital sector .  it funds home ownership initiatives that help families build real wealth .  in the city of houston alone we have 25 , 000 people waiting on a list to obtain affordable housing .  these homes will provide them the stability and equity to build their lives and eventually achieve their own prosperity , we shame ourselves when we deny them the opportunity to do so .  the cbc alternative also restores $ 1.122 billion for vital community block grants which were gutted in the republican budget resolution .  without the ability to build up our communities how can we change people 's realities ?  without community development we allow these disparities to continue unabated .  the cbc alternative budget does not remove any money from the overall defense and homeland security budget .  instead , it takes $ 7.7 billion out of the ballistic missile defense program , which has so far proven to be a failure and redirects the money to additional support for the troops in iraq , homeland security needs , and veterans programs and benefits .  among the items of support for the troops in iraq is $ 75 million of body armor , personal support equipment , and other protective gear for troops , and vehicle armor ; all of which we know the troops are in urgent need of .  the cbc alternative provides an additional $ 2.05 billion for homeland security including funds for improving rail and port security , which have always been high risk targets for attack .  this alternative budget provides $ 4.65 billion for veterans funding , so that when our brave men and women return home from fighting the war on terror they will know that their nation is ready and willing to take care of them .  the cbc alternative also funds the important sector of immigration .  as the ranking member of the subcommittee on immigration , border security , and claims i worked with the cbc to get funding for $ 150 million for immigration and customs enforcement , ice , agents and border patrol agents , truly we are undermanned in this vital sector .  in addition , as a member of the house science committee i worked with the cbc to fund an additional $ 500 million for general science , space , and development and support the research and development efforts of nasa , the national science foundation , nsf , the national institute of standards and technologies , nist , and the department of energy .  in addition to research and development , the cbc alternative also supports additional this cbc alternative budget is proof positive that we can properly fund social programs while still paying down more of the national debt than the republican budget .  again , i say that this budget represents hope instead of the despair we feel when looking at the republican budget resolution .  it is a hope for ending the disparities that continue to divide us and keep us to this day from achieving our full potential as a nation .  