mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , this republican budget conclusively demonstrates one thing : that when it comes to audacity , our friends on the other side of the aisle have an unlimited supply .  yesterday republican leaders , including the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , majority leader ; and the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  , chairman of the committee on rules , claimed on this floor that the policies adopted by the republican party last year reduced last year 's budget deficit by $ 109 billion .  what an extraordinary lewis carroll `` alice in wonderland '' representation .  you incurred over $ 350 billion of deficit , as you well know .  the only thing you reduced was the inflated figure the white house came with at the beginning of the year .  a figure that , by the way , was supposed to be zero , as i recall , the 2001 budget .  on the republican party 's watch , the federal government recorded the worst budget deficit in american history , $ 412 billion in fiscal year 2004 .  four hundred and twelve billion dollars of deficit spending , and that is counting using every nickel of social security , which you said you were not going to do , which the president said you were not going to do .  and you had a `` lockbox. '' it is a sieve box .  our republican friends , it appears , are the only people who believe that a $ 412 billion deficit is something to brag about .  for years they have preened as fiscal conservatives , but in less than 48 months they have turned the projected 10-year budget surplus , a $ 5.6 trillion surplus that they were handed , that president bush from this rostrum said we had as a result of the 8 years of the clinton administration , $ 5.6 trillion , into a deficit today in 48 months .  i will put up 8. forty-eight months , we ought to be ashamed of that .  we ought to be ashamed to tell our children that that is what we have done to them .  we ought to be ashamed to tell our grandchildren , of which i have three , that that is what we have done to them and their generation .  we have added more than $ 2.2 trillion to the national debt in 48 months .  the entire debt of the united states of america from 1789 to 1981 , when i came to congress , was $ 985 billion , cumulative debt .  from 1789 to 1981 , $ 985 billion .  last year we raised the debt $ 984 billion in one year .  that is the height of fiscal irresponsibility , and i suggest it is also a fiscally immoral act and is the abuse of our children and grandchildren and generations yet to come , who in their time will face a challenge perhaps like the democratic budget that the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  offers has balance by 2012 .  it has the paygo system , which mr. greenspan is for , but you are not for because you do not want to pay .  you talk about cutting taxes or raising taxes , but what you are really saying is you do not want to pay for what you are buying .  and you buy because all the spending that we have incurred is in your budgets .  all of the spending is in budgets .  we can not control the budgets .  so all of the spending , but there is very little of the pain .  that is fiscally irresponsible .  i would like to see who is going to vote for the bankruptcy bill when it comes on the floor that want responsible borrowers .  i will vote for the spratt alternative because it is a responsible alternative , and i will enthusiastically and proudly and morally vote against the republican alternative .  