madam chairman , i move to strike the last word .  madam chairman , as someone who enjoys recreational activities like fishing , boating and hunting and represents thousands of minnesotans who do as well , i share a special responsibility to make sure that these opportunities are available for generations to come .  today , many of those activities are threatened by the spread of aquatic invasive species .  we have seen a rapid growth of invasive species in recent years , from the great lakes , to our coastal waters , to local lakes and streams throughout the country .  in my home state of minnesota , we have increasingly been challenged to find ways to prevent and control disruptive species like european and asian carp .  in many areas , invasive european carp have found their way into minnesota 's wetlands and lakes , while asian carp has found its way into the mississippi river as far north as iowa .  if not properly addressed , both of these species threaten to disrupt the ecosystem that many minnesotans enjoy for fishing and boating .  one of the few ways in which federal , state and local governments collectively combat the threat of aquatic invasive species is through the state aquatic nuisance species management plans .  these plans identify activities to eliminate or reduce the environmental , public health and safety risks associated with aquatic invasive species .  these activities are implemented by states through feasible , cost-effective management policies undertaken in an environmentally sound manner .  these plans are available to both individual states and affected multi-state regions .  in fact , currently 14 states have approved plans , and at least 11 other states have plans under development .  unfortunately , the resources available to effectively implement these plans fall well short of the mark .  this is the third year in a row plans to attack invasive species are funded at slightly over $ 1 million .  i very much appreciate the work of the chairman and the committee to try to address this very important issue but would suggest that these limited funds are not enough to counteract the billions of dollars in costs associated with invasive species habitat destruction and lost recreational opportunities .  simply put , we must invest more in these plans if we hope to control the spread of these aquatic pests .  i appreciate the chairman 's offering to work with me .  