mr. chairman , i rise in support of the cbc budget , a common-sense framework that embraces our values , that focuses on fiscal discipline and that invests in our nation 's future .  to be frank , the budget that president bush presented us with is a betrayal of the trust that is placed in us as legislators .  it violates the commitments that we have made to our children , to our veterans , and to our farmers and it does so while amassing mountains of debt , that we have no means of repaying .  i stand in support of the cbc budget because it is a fiscally responsible alternative that targets the disparities that plague our communities and puts our priorities where they belong .  it lowers the astronomical budget deficit , by eliminating corporate tax loopholes and abusive tax shelters at the same time that it lowers tax cuts for individuals making more than $ 200 , 000 a year .  this adjustment would restore an estimated $ 36.3 billion in fy 2006 , including nearly $ 4 billion for deficit reduction .  we will fully fund no child left behind ; build and repair schools ; increase investment in job training and job creation programs .  we will not slash community and regional development programs , rather we will continue to invest in housing for those who need assistance .  we provide funding for child nutrition programs , community health centers , nasa research and development , amtrak , hope vi and section 8 housing programs , and housing for the disabled and the elderly .  and we keep our commitments to our nation 's farmers who are depending on us to keep the promises that we made in the 2002 farm bill .  additionally , the cbc budget allocates funding for veterans and defense above the president 's requested level , to support our troops in iraq and afghanistan , bolster our homeland security needs , and fully fund our veterans programs and benefits .  mr. chairman , i believe in fiscal responsibility .  i believe that in times of national and fiscal crisis , sacrifices need to be made .  but , i also believe that they need to be made by all americans .  it is unfair to scale back government programs that benefit hard working families in order to fund tax cuts that most benefit the wealthiest of americans .  we all need to make sacrifices , but we must also keep our priorities straight .  i believe that the cbc budget does just that .  