mr. chairman , first , let me just thank the gentleman for yielding me the time and for his leadership ; also to the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. watt )  , the chairman of our congressional black caucus , and to the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  for their leadership in spearheading this very responsible alternative budget .  the cbc budget is not only fiscally responsible but it also reduces our federal deficit by $ 167 billion .  it rescinds the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for individuals making more than $ 200 , 000 .  it closes tax loopholes and it drastically reduces funding for the ballistic missile defense program by about $ 7.8 billion .  the republican budget , quite frankly , fails to live up to any standard of morality that requires us to care for the least of these .  from port security to health care , the republican budget falls short on every count .  on the other hand , the congressional black caucus budget shows how national security priorities must include the economic security of all americans .  a strong america can not have desperate , vulnerable people .  as a member representing one of the largest ports in the country , it is clear to me that there needs to be significant increases in port security funding .  the cbc budget provides $ 500 million more for port and container security .  at a time when our ports remain one of our most vulnerable targets , allocating funds for container security is essential .  unfortunately , the republican budget fails to adequately support homeland security priorities .  our budget strengthens economic security priorities by easing disparities in housing and health care for example .  the president 's budget eliminated the community development block grant program which provides financial assistance towards improving housing and economic conditions in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods .  that is why i am very proud to support the cbc budget that provides $ 1.12 billion more than the republican budget to the cdbg initiative .  the president 's budget also eliminated the brownfields redevelopment program , but our budget adds $ 24 billion .  the brownfields redevelopment initiative provides important incentives for hazardous site cleanup and redevelopment .  it is crucial to the health and safety of our communities , especially our children .  the cbc budget also provides an additional $ 880 million for section 8 housing and $ 500 million more for hope vi .  all of these programs are crucial to ensuring the economic security of the most vulnerable americans .  the cbc budget also restores approximately $ 50 million in funding to the public housing drug elimination program .  it allocates $ 490 million to the minority health initiative and $ 500 million for community health centers .  these programs are vital to providing primary health care for our minority communities .  mr. chairman , the republican budget punishes people .  it punishes them by making them choose between their health or their housing .  the cbc budget allows people to have access to both .  the republican budget erodes our economic security .  it weakens our community .  it leaves our infrastructure crumbling .  the republican support of outdated weapons systems , wasteful defense programs , reckless tax cuts , and irresponsible deficit spending relegates economic security priorities to the back burner .  i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the congressional black caucus budget .  