mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to the republican budget .  it 's dishonest .  it 's immoral .  it 's wrong for america 's future .  republicans dishonestly proclaim their budget is fiscally responsible .  the only way their numbers work out is if you use slick accounting gimmicks or fuzzy math .  let me give you some examples of their clever sleight of hand : the republicans ' top priority to privatize social security through private accounts will cost billions of dollars .  you 'd think that 'd be accounted for in this budget ?  no .  the billions of dollars that will be needed for the iraq war .  in the budget ?  no .  the cost to our children of extending the massive bush tax cuts to the wealthy that will balloon our massive deficit ?  you guessed it .  not in the budget .  even as they leave out all this massive spending , republicans still claim fiscal responsibility .  do n't be fooled .  they 're lying to the american public .  the true costs of this budget are far higher than republicans claim and our children and grandchildren will pay the tab for this deceit for decades to come .  this budget is n't just dishonest -- it 's immoral .  it imposes deep cuts to vital programs that americans depend upon .  as our weak economy is forcing more people to rely on medicaid 's health safety net , republicans are cutting the program by $ 20 billion .  income support programs that keep low-income families afloat economically are being axed .  some 48 education programs , vital environmental protections , community development grants and veteran 's health care programs are being gutted .  if you 're an average american family this will affect you and your economic security .  but , while you 're tightening your belt watching funding for child 's education and your family 's health care diminish , billions of dollars are going to big business and special interests .  while every other priority is sacrificed in the gop budget , billions of dollars more are being funneled into the bloated defense contracts or frittered away in corporate tax giveaways .  mr. speaker , the federal budget is supposed to be a statement of our nation 's priorities .  this budget is a punch line to a sick joke being played on the american people .  i urge my colleagues to oppose this dishonest , immoral and irresponsible budget .  