mr. chairman , as i indicated earlier , i intend to vote for this bill because i think the gentleman from texas has done a reasonable job , given the limitations placed on him by the budget resolution .  having said that , i do not want anyone to think that i am enthusiastic about the result .  i am not .  i think that after we pass this bill today the food and drug administration will still be left with inadequate authority to protect the public health from dangerous drugs .  the fda will still have a terrible time trying to provide new labels for drugs which had been initially approved but which later had been found to be , in some cases , a threat to public health .  this congress has an obligation to fix that .  it is being prevented from fixing that by the rule that passed earlier today .  secondly , i want to say that i think the bill is inadequate in a number of areas .  i think that with respect to having a full-fledged animal identification program to help protect the public health against problems like mad cow disease , i think that the funding for that is inadequate .  i certainly think that funding for rural sewer and water is grossly inadequate .  there is probably more demand in my district for rural sewer and water grants than any other program in the federal budget .  when one lives in a community in which more than 50 percent of the households are headed either by someone over 65 or by a woman who has no long work history outside of the home , that means that that community has very little tax base and very little economic ability to meet environmental standards for water and sewer , and the congress is doing precious little to help those communities .  i think we are also very negligent with respect to rural housing , and i think that this bill is totally inadequate with respect to international food aid .  there are a number of other concerns i have about it .  but those are the main ones that i would focus on at this moment .  i will vote for the bill because i think the major fault for the inadequacies of the bill lies with the committee on the budget , not with the gentleman who produced the bill .  but i think members need to understand this bill is not adequate to meet the economic development needs of rural america .  it is not adequate to meet the environmental needs of rural america .  it is not adequate to meet the public health requirements of the american people .  i wish it were .  maybe some day it will .  