mr. speaker , to my colleague on the other side of the aisle , i just might add that this is the people 's bill .  but , unfortunately , this particular bill is not meeting the needs of the american public as has been aptly pointed out by my colleague from wisconsin .  i also might say that there has been bipartisan support in the past because together we could come together and increase the opportunity , whether it was idea , whether it was for low-income assistance , whether it was for education , and it was a rallying point on a bipartisan basis to do something for the american people .  mr. speaker , when we defeated this bill in november , it cut health research , college loans and low-income energy assistance .  it cut assistance to working families and the unemployed by almost 4 percent .  and at a time when america is falling behind competitors like china , whose economy is growing three times as fast as ours , it cut worker training .  that bill failed by a bipartisan vote of 209 to 224 .  what about the bill is so different this time that it warrants passage ?  very little .  indeed , this bill is at the same funding level , simply shifting money from one underfunded priority to another .  if anything , once you consider the additional $ 1.4 billion in cuts that the republican leadership intends to impose with a 1 percent government-wide across-the-board cut , this bill is worse .  i understand that the chairman and his staff are doing their best .  i do recognize that this bill includes many programs that the president had slated for elimination , especially in the area of education and community services block grants .  but his is an impossible mission .  he has been asked to craft a spending bill with resources that do not even allow for us to meet last year 's levels with inflation .  and why ?  and why ?  not because america can not fund these priorities .  we are the richest country in the world .  rather , it is because the republican leadership has chosen to use the funds we have for tax cuts that only impact americans earning over $ 200 , 000 per year .  i might add that 53 percent of those tax cuts will go to people who make over $ 1 million a year .  that is the real story behind this so-called budget crunch .  that is as i said in november , ask any middle class family today what is important to them , tax cuts for wealthy americans or things like lowering the cost of health care , of heating their homes this winter or sending their kids to college ?  they will tell you every time that all they want is something that makes a difference in their lives and in their family 's lives .  this bill fails the test .  i urge my colleagues to oppose it .  