madam chairman , i appreciate the gentleman yielding me this time , and i want to explain a problem that we discovered as the bill has been moving through .  since 1997 , by executive order , a program was created known as the american heritage rivers initiative .  in that program , there are 14 rivers , one of which is the hudson river in new york state and the susquehanna in pennsylvania .  as a combined effort over the last 5 or 6 years , funding for the river navigator has come through the program of the natural resources conservation service .  either inadvertently or otherwise , even though we have had bipartisan support for the support of these two navigator positions for the hudson river and the susquehanna , the susquehanna was inadvertently not included in report language on page 51 of the report , where only the hudson river is indicated .  what i would request from the chairman is assurances that during conference that report language would be amended to include the susquehanna river for funding the navigator .  just as a justification for that , i want to point out that the susquehanna river has been designated by american rivers as one of the most polluted and endangered rivers in the country .  toward that end , the navigator presently in place has been involved in two areas : improving water quality and use , and increased economic development in the region .  to give my colleagues an example , we are now in the throes of more than $ 100 million in projects as a result of the effort of the navigator position : remodeling an old hotel in downtown wilkes-barre on the waterfront that exceeds $ 24 million in costs ; riverfront revitalization that is between $ 25 million and $ 30 million ; a program of $ 10 million of the gis project to include the entire susquehanna watershed so that we can work on water quality problems in that area of the susquehanna river ; and a project , an ongoing project presently of over $ 30 million to service the combined sewage overflows into the susquehanna river .  without the key leadership of the navigator , we will lose that $ 100 or $ 150 million in projects and return to really zero .  what i am urging the chairman to indicate is his willingness to amend the report language as this bill proceeds through conference to include not only the hudson river but also the susquehanna river .  i may assure the chairman that we have worked in a very bipartisan effort with members of the new york delegation and governor pataki 's office that both of these river navigator positions should be funded in this bill , as the other 12 navigators are funded in other appropriations bills across the country .  but to leave out the susquehanna river , either inadvertently or by error , would be catastrophic to my congressional district .  