i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , the budget is a reflection of our values and priorities as a nation .  congress should support a federal budget that will make us more competitive in the global economy , spread prosperity to more americans and reestablish fiscal discipline to ensure a better future for our children .  this budget resolution takes us in the wrong direction .  in order to cover up the president 's mismanagement of the economy and the resulting mountains of debt , the republican budget sacrifices important domestic priorities like medicaid .  this budget resolution cuts medicaid more deeply than the president 's proposal , as much as $ 20 billion over 5 years .  slashing medicaid will have a devastating impact on the most vulnerable in our society .  medicaid is the health care safety net for impoverished children , elderly and the disabled .  reductions to medicaid will cause lasting harm to current medicaid beneficiaries and make the system less viable for health care providers .  exactly who will be affected by cuts to medicaid ?  thirty-nine million low-income children and parents , including one in every five american children ; 13 million elderly and disabled individuals who are receiving acute and long-term care coverage .  this budget would set back the quality of nursing home care .  with medicaid funding half of the nation 's nursing home care , cutting or block granting the program would set back efforts at improving the quality of care provided to seniors and people with disabilities in the nation 's nursing homes .  this budget would unravel an already fraying health safety net , jeopardizing support for providers like hospitals , clinics , doctors and health plans that serve low-income people .  this budget would increase the number of uninsured which has already risen to 45 million people under the president 's watch .  sick people cost more when they are uninsured and receiving care in emergency rooms than when they are covered by medicaid .  this budget would put children at risk .  if children have less health coverage , they are more likely to compromise their ability to learn in school and to grow into healthy , contributing members of society .  cuts to medicaid will shift costs to states , increasing their already significant fiscal burdens .  cuts in block grants do not address the real challenges states are facing , medicaid enrollment increases which have occurred as a result of more people losing their health care coverage .  shifting additional costs to the states will likely drive them to cut medicaid coverage and services .  this administration has provided huge tax cuts to the highest earning households in the nation over the last few years .  now we see the rest of the plan .  to reduce or eliminate health care coverage for poor , elderly and disabled people in order to finance tax cuts for the wealthy is inequitable and not in line with our nation 's values .  