mr. chairman , i yield myself 4 minutes .  mr. chairman , during much of this debate , as i noted earlier , my republican colleagues have taken the attitude that today 's deficits were unforeseeable , unavoidable , beyond their control .  but we warned here in 2001 and in every year thereafter when this resolution came before this house that the other side of the aisle was betting the budget on a blue sky forecast and leaving no margin for error .  it is their policy choices made in the face of our objections that have brought us to the point we find ourselves today .  in deficit this year by $ 427 billion , last year by $ 412 billion , the year before by $ 375 billion , each year has broken a record for a bigger and bigger deficit .  you control the house , you control the senate , you control the white house ; but you have not been able to control the budget , and you can not escape responsibility for its dismal condition .  as we stand here at the threshold of passing another budget resolution , i want to forewarn you , you will not take the deficit away , this resolution will not .  you will not move the deficit down .  it will only move it up and out , year after year after year to come .  but do not take my word for it .  i am partisan .  i am the democratic ranking member on this committee .  read what our neutral , nonpartisan budget shop , the congressional budget office , has to say in a report that we request every year as a matter of law , analysis of the president 's budgetary proposals for fiscal year 2006 .  every member has one of these in his or her office .  you only have to read to the second page and look in the upper right-hand corner , and you will see there that the congressional budget office says if the president 's budget is passed and implemented over the next 10 years , it will accumulate $ 5.135 trillion in additional debt of the united states .  table 1.1 , it is laid out there .  but as you all know and understand the way cbo does these estimates , they do not include all the costs .  since the president does not have costs in his budget for afghanistan and iraq after 2005 , this resolution , this estimate does not assume it , even though cbo estimates that the additional costs will be $ 384 billion .  it does not include a dime for fixing the alternative minimum tax , even though we are warned that by 2010 there will be 30 million taxpayers paying it rather than the regular tax schedule .  and cbo says the cost of fixing it over 10 years is $ 640 billion .  it includes nothing for the president 's signature initiative , the one he is pushing hardest and first and that is to partially privatize social security .  the president has indicated himself that the cost of doing that , the additional deficits we will add if we do that between 2009 and 2015 will be $ 754 billion .  when you add all of these additional costs into the mix , then the debt incurred through 2016 will be $ 7 trillion .  we will double the debt of the united states .  if indeed we do what the president is proposing and allow workers to peel 4 percentage points off fica and put those payments into a private account , we will incur $ 4.9 trillion in debt over the next 20 years .  we will not see the budget balanced again in our lifetime .  cbo is our forecaster , our neutral , nonpartisan budget shop .  they are warning us this budget will not bring the deficit down .  this budget will not do away with the deficit .  it will make the deficit worse .  indeed , they tell us in this report , same page , page 2 , that the president 's budget , basically your budget , the president 's budget , makes the situation $ 2 trillion worse than if we just left things on automatic pilot for current services .  i would simply close by saying , vote against this resolution .  let us go back to the drawing board .  we can do better .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  