mr. chairman , for those of you who have read the prophet micah , i know that he was not speaking to the congressional budget office .  he was speaking to the human heart , and that is the biggest difference between the policies that we have before us today .  we believe that the individual should be free and should be allowed to determine their destiny .  we do not believe that government should make decisions that people can make better for themselves .  we do not believe that money equals compassion .  we do not believe that money often equals success .  money is not getting us results .  and all that is offered on the other side is more money , more spending , higher taxes , more government , more bureaucracy , more regulation , more laws , more politicians making decisions that individuals and families and communities should be making for themselves my friends , government is growing out of control .  what we are asking for in this budget is something that we should do every day in washington , and that is look at the results of the programs that we have put in place .  government , we believe , should be there to help people who can not help themselves .  and oftentimes , we have invented more government to try and take the place of families , take the place of neighbors , take the place of communities in order to solve problems .  and too often we are not getting the results for all the extra money that we are spending .  and too often , in this well of the house , we debate between percentages and dollar increases as if , if i spend $ 6 and you spend $ 7 you must care $ 1 more .  and that is not the way our debate should evolve .  our debate should be based on results .  we need a results revolution in government .  we need to look at the results we are getting from the programs we have put in place .  if they just like last year , the house will lead .  we led last year .  we led when we got to a balanced budget in the late 1990s , and we will lead again today by passing what i believe is the strongest budget , the best blueprint , to get out of deficits , to make sure that we get results from the programs and the dollars that we are spending and make sure we get back on a path to freedom in this country .  i urge adoption of this budget .  