mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the budget resolution and in support of the democratic substitute .  in the last 3 years , the republican congress has enacted three tax cuts , resulting in the three largest deficits in history , all the while on top of the record $ 400-plus billion deficits and $ 2.4 trillion of additional debt .  this budget does not account for the $ 300 billion of the iraqi-afghanistan war , the $ 800 billion for the prescription drug benefit they passed , and the $ 1.9 trillion needed to privatize social security .  if this is an example of what a conservative philosophy is , we can not afford this fiscal mess any more , and the one thing we can always say about the republican budget is we will be forever in your debt .  the cbo , the congressional budget office , has attested to all of these figures , but none of them are honestly reflected in this resolution .  but while leaving a sea of red ink for future generations , what does this budget do to the middle class , who are facing rises costs in health care and college tuition ?  this budget makes it all the more difficult for the middle class to afford their health care and college education .  this budget cuts the health care professional training by $ 300 million , it cuts community health by $ 289 million , it cuts extended health care facilities for veterans by $ 105 million , and it eliminates the preventive health care block grants .  it also underfunds the national institutes of health and maternal and child health care block grants .  it is a fascinating approach to investing in america 's future .  who knew when george bush declared he was against nation building , it was america he was talking about ?  we need a new direction and a new set of economic policies to put the middle class families and their economic interests at the heart of our economic policies .  to think that the policies or the stewardship of the republican congress over the last 4 years has led to $ 2.4 trillion in additional debt , three consecutive years of the largest deficits in the history of the country , and all under the rubric of being a conservative , it is a fascinating approach , and all the while we are cutting health care , investments in america , cutting college tuition assistance to middle class families , opening doors to their future , it is a fascinating approach nobody has ever really thought of as a way to build america 's future as one that is brighter .  