mr. chairman , a budget says a lot about our values .  what this budget says to america 's veterans is that congress does not value your service to country .  it makes a mockery of the american value of shared sacrifice in time of war .  how does it do that ?  let me explain .  this budget says to the person sitting here safely at home who makes $ 1 million in dividend income this year that you can keep every penny of your $ 220 , 000 tax break that the house republican leadership has given you recently , every penny of that tax break .  but , on the other hand , it says to millions of america 's veterans that we are going to direct a $ 14 billion cut in veterans ' programs over the next 5 years .  this budget even goes so far as to say they have to cut $ 798 billion out of disabled veterans ' monthly pensions , low-income veterans compensation checks and veterans gi benefits , their education benefits , unless of course they want to go raise fees or , perhaps most likely , do all of those things .  where is the american value , the american family value , in those priorities ?  to a millionaire , making every dime on dividend income , you can keep your $ 220 , 000 tax cut ; but to a veteran who may be coming back from iraq , in fact a soldier today who may be tomorrow 's veteran or next year 's veteran , we are going to make you wait longer for health care in our va hospitals ; you are not going to get the care you deserve and you earned by risking your life for your country .  i hear a lot from my republican colleagues about family values .  this budget does not reflect the family values of the american family , because the american family respects the service and sacrifice of our veterans , not just with speeches on veterans day .  we are awfully good about that .  but they expect us to respect veterans every day , and this bill does not even come close to maintaining present services for health care for our veterans .  they can show their charts , how they have increased veterans funding , but the reality is it does not keep up with present services .  so , in effect , every member of this house who votes for this bill is voting for a real cut in health care services , education services and monthly disability pension checks for america 's veterans .  i think the american people , and i know america 's veterans , are going to be offended by the values and priorities of this bill .  let us not just say yes to veterans on veterans day and turn our backs on them on budget day .  sadly that is what this budget does .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reject the values of this budget ; reject the slap in the face of millions of american veterans while coddling the wealthiest in our society , who are going to enjoy that $ 220 , 000 tax break they are making by their riskless dividend income of $ 1 million this year .  let us stand up for america 's veterans today when it counts .  they may appreciate our speeches on veterans day , but today they need our vote .  that is the value that counts .  vote no on this unfair slap in the face to america 's veterans .  