mr. chairman , the budget declares our nation 's priorities in black and white , and this budget makes america black and blue .  republicans have squandered the surplus , forcing america to go country to country in search of money to prop up what can not stand on its own fiscal integrity .  they present charts and graphs .  they talk about acting in america 's best interest when , in fact , we have before us a budget that rewards america 's special interests .  we are deep in debt and growing deeper because republicans have so many special interests to thank with your money .  the price tag is mind-boggling , but that is outdone by the people republicans have targeted to bear the burden of their fiscal recklessness .  the rich get the gain ; america 's most vulnerable get the pain .  as ranking democrat on the human resources subcommittee , i asked my staff to examine where past republican practices might be in this politically engineered budget crisis .  $ 18.7 billion is coming out of the committee on ways and means .  none of it out of social security .  none out of medicare .  what is left ?  poor people and children .  two million of our nation 's poorest families will see draconian cuts in temporary assistance for needy families .  child care assistance for low-income working families could be eliminated .  social service block grants could be cut 60 percent , and federal assistance for foster care could be slashed by 80 percent .  and if that is not enough , let us take $ 5 billion worth of food stamps out of children 's mouths .  it is america 's most vulnerable who will pay for the republican intention to extend tax breaks for capital gains , with 75 percent of the benefit going to people earning over $ 200 , 000 a year .  what in the world is going on ?  do republicans intend to starve the poor so they can feed the rich ?  budgets reflect values .  we heard a lot about values , family values , all this stuff .  i guess feeding kids is not a value .  and i suppose this budget reflects the republican majority .  those values can be summed up in one word , bankrupt , just like this budget .  i urge a `` no '' on this resolution .  