mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , i want to respond to an observation the gentleman from texas ( mr. hensarling )  made that this was the most fiscally responsible budget since the reagan years .  i was surprised , first of all , that he chose the reagan years as a frame of reference .  those are the years that the mushroom deficits first appeared .  we had deficits of $ 200 billion , 5.6 percent of gdp in the early 1980s .  it took us 15 years to get to those deficits .  that would not be the kind of model that i would choose .  if you want something to model a budget after , then there is a much more recent and much more valid model and that is what we did in 1990 , 1993 and 1997 .  in 1990 , both sides sat down , president bush took part in the negotiations through his staff and we came to the first agreement for the settlement of the budget deficit .  the bush balanced budget agreement of 1990 and 1991 , laid the foundation for what we accomplished in the 1990s .  in 1993 , we did the clinton budget .  in 1997 , we finished it up with the balanced budget act .  all of those acts contained three elements , the paygo rule which we are proposing to reinstate , caps on discretionary spending backed up by sequestration , and a multiyear 5-year budget , not just a 1-year budget but a 5-year budget with goals to attain each year .  that is what is lacking here , the budget process , the budget discipline , the budget plan .  if you want to see where this budget is likely to lead us , i would like to say once again that everybody should look in his mail and he or she will find an analysis of the president 's budgetary proposals for fiscal year 2006 .  this is essentially the president 's budget with a few changes to it , but it is basically his budget .  as i have said , you only have to read two pages .  you come to table 1.1 and you look in the far right-hand column and you will see the total debt accumulation according to cbo that will be incurred if we follow the president 's budget through 2015 .  that total is $ 5.135 trillion and that is before anything for fixing the alternative minimum tax which cbo tells us is going to cost at least $ 640 billion , and before anything is added mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  