mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the conference report on h.r. 3010 , labor , health and human services and education appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 .  like the version rejected by the house last month , the revised version still slashes health , education and jobs programs by $ 1.6 billion below the fy 2005 enacted level .  mr. speaker , this is the second time the house has considered the lhhs conference report .  sadly , a second look at the conference report is not better .  on november 17 , the conference report was rejected because the bill showed that the republican-led congress was out of touch with the priorities and needs of the american people .  the bill before us today does not change the core principles rejected in the first conference report .  the second conference report still underfunds key programs because of the republican-led congress and the administration 's fiscally irresponsible budget priorities , continued insistence on large additional tax cuts for the super rich , and the wars in iraq and afghanistan .  although appropriators must make tough choices because of these extraordinarily tight budget constraints , programs that help millions of americans should not be on the chopping block .  with a record 55 million children in public schools and state budgets stretched thin , no child left behind ( nclb ) funding is cut by $ 779 million .  title i , which is the core of nclb 's efforts to improve reading and math skills , receives the smallest increase for title i in 8 years -- only $ 100 million -- which means 3.1 million low-income children will be left behind .  even as the cost of a 4-year public college education has increased by 34 percent since 2001 , the maximum pell grant is frozen for the fourth straight year at $ 4 , 050 , and no new funding for all other student financial aid and support programs is provided in this conference report .  this conference report will actually cut the federal share of special education costs from 18.6 percent in fy 2005 to 18.0 percent by providing the smallest increase for the individuals with disabilities act in a decade .  the bill provides $ 4 billion less than what was promised for idea .  with 7.6 million americans out of work , republicans cut the community college initiative 's , which trains workers for high skill , high paying jobs by $ 125 million-rescinding funds provided last year and denying this assistance to 100 , 000 americans .  republicans also cut job search assistance through the employment service by 11 percent and cut state unemployment insurance and employment service offices by 7 percent , eliminating help for 1.9 million people .  consumers are expected to pay 52 percent more for natural gas , 11 percent more for electricity , and 24 percent more for home heating oil this winter , yet this conference report failed to increase funding for liheap home heating assistance , which helps keep the heat on for low-income seniors and families with children .  nearly 46 million americans are without health insurance yet this conference report provides almost no funding for new community health centers beyond those approved last year and eliminates the healthy communities access program and state planning grants to improve health care coverage .  preventive health block grants to state health departments help address critical public health problems .  the bill provides less for responding to disease outbreaks , immunizing children , and improving care for people with chronic diseases , when it cuts these grants by $ 31 million .  this conference report reflects the priorities of this republican-led congress and not those of democrats and most americans .  the country 's priorities should be based on the shared sacrifice of all americans , not just sacrifices for the poor , working class , students and seniors .  the labor-hhs-education bill should fund significant health , education , job assistance , training and research programs that impact every american .  this conference report is way short in meeting the needs of americans .  congress is walking away from our commitment to equal opportunity and a better quality of life for all americans .  greater access to employment training , jobs , affordable healthcare , quality education , and ending disparities should be our goal .  this bill falls short of achieving those goals .  mr. speaker , despite the addition of modest funding increases for certain rural health programs , this bill still dramatically cuts the core principles and programs that are important to americans .  i oppose this lhhs conference report and urge all of my colleagues to reject this bill full of misguided priorities .  