mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time .  mr. chairman , i rise in support of the alternative budget resolution that will soon be offered by my friend and colleague , the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  .  i do so in light of the fact that the republican budget resolution mirrors the president 's request for defense and the spratt alternative matches this funding dollar-for-dollar , but the spratt budget is better because section 401 of his resolution calls on the congress to address serious shortcomings in both the president 's budget and the house republican budget resolution .  let me explain why i favor the spratt alternative budget .  the republican budget only temporarily increases the death gratuity and the service members group life insurance coverage .  the spratt budget would make these increases permanent .  that is important .  the republican budget omits targeted pay raises and reenlistment bonuses for enlisted personnel .  we know right now we are having a great deal of trouble in enlisting young people , reenlisting some of the troops .  as you know , you enlist a soldier , but you retain families .  these issues are critical to retaining experienced troops and maintaining readiness .  the spratt budget makes it a priority .  the republican budget fails to increase funds for family service centers to support the families of deploying troops .  the spratt budget takes care of that , and takes care of our military families .  the republican budget shortchanges community-based health care organizations that care for the injured servicemen and women .  the spratt budget takes care of that .  it pluses up the program .  the republican budget does not aggressively fund nuclear nonproliferation programs .  both sides of the aisle , and as a matter of fact during the last campaign both the candidates for president , said that stopping a nuclear weapon from getting in the hands of terrorists is our top national security priority .  the spratt budget backs that up with dollars .  mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support the budget to be offered by the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt )  .  