mr. chairman , i want to first start by thanking the gentleman from texas for offering this budget alternative .  i think it is a fiscally conservative , sane budget and i think it is much needed here in washington , d.c .  furthermore , i would like to thank the gentleman from iowa ( mr. nussle )  , the chairman of the committee on the budget , for putting forward a very strong , fiscally conservative , reasonable budget for the american people that is not just good for our priorities here in washington , d.c. , like funding national defense , like funding homeland security , but it is also a good way to rein in government spending and eliminate government programs that have gotten out of control and maybe are not responsive to individual taxpayers .  so i compliment our chairman in that regard .  but , mr. chairman , the reason why i address the house tonight is because we have a better alternative , a much more fiscally alternative budget put before us by the gentleman from texas .  this budget would further reduce spending , would further rein in government growth , and would take on the mandatory spending programs that are going to bankrupt our country .  what the gentleman from texas does with this alternative budget is rein in government spending and mandatory programs further , further reduce nondiscretionary spending , while at the same time funding the president 's budget when it comes to defense and homeland security , two top priorities of this congress .  but , additionally , it continues the tax cuts .  it continues returning the taxpayers ' money to them at home .  so i think it is important that we keep all those notions in mind as we vote for this budget .  i encourage those on the other side of the aisle who ask for more fiscal discipline to come on over and vote for this budget because it is a reasonable thing to do , the right thing to do .  it is the right thing to do for the taxpayers , the right thing to do for the american people ; and i encourage them to vote for the budget .  