mr. chairman , i thank both our chairman as well as the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott )  for their leadership on this most important effort .  i rise to support the cbc budget , the only budget in this congress at this time that invests in america 's families .  there are three things wrong with america and why we are not doing well .  the permanent tax cuts cost $ 1.2 trillion .  on the war in iraq we have spent $ 300 billion , and the deficit is blooming .  our cbc budget reduces the deficit .  our cbc budget invests in defense , homeland security , and the veterans at the same numbers that were given to this house by the president .  we must support the cbc budget .  americans have to be outraged that we are not investing in their families and their children and their health care .  i hope that we will do right .  the cbc budget must be adopted .  support the congressional black caucus fiscal year 2006 budget substitute the congressional black caucus ( cbc ) fiscal year 2006 budget substitute focuses on the cbc 's agenda ( closing disparities in america 's communities ) and restoring fiscal responsibility to the federal budget process .  the disparities that continue to exist in our society in education , health care , economic opportunity , justice , retirement security and foreign policy are addressed in the cbc budget .  in addition , our budget focuses on strengthening our efforts at the department of homeland security , meeting some of the critical needs of our troops and improving services to our veterans .  and , while making these important investments in our country 's future , our budget places a high priority on reducing the record federal budget deficit .  the cbc budget uses the republican budget as the base budget and makes the following adjustments : it includes a reduction in the tax cuts from 2001 and 2003 for an individual 's adjusted gross income that exceeds $ 200 , 000 ; furthermore , it does not adopt the new republican tax cuts .  most of the revenue raised in the cbc budget is used to address disparities in america 's communities ; a substantial portion is reserved to reduce the deficit .  ballistic missile defense spending is reduced by $ 7.8 billion , leaving $ 1 billion for research and development .  all of these funds are spent on other defense items to support our troops , homeland security needs , and veterans programs and benefits .  the total for defense , homeland security and veterans is equal to the republican budget .  the cbc budget addresses critical domestic challenges , and supports our troops .  the cbc budget reduces the deficit by $ 167 billion compared to the house majority 's budget over the next five years ; this fiscal responsibility is rewarded by a reduction of $ 27 billion in interest payments compared to the house majority 's budget .  the cbc budget focuses on closing disparities that exist in our society and investing in america 's future .  we hope you will join us in supporting these efforts by supporting the cbc budget substitute .  summary of fiscal year 2006 cbc alternative budget total general revenue : $ 32.4 billion .  amount applied to deficit reduction : $ 3.9 billion .  the united states is facing unprecedented challenges to our national security and broader national interests .  although there is an overall increase in the president 's request for international assistance for fy 06 , more needs to be done to address the ongoing global challenges of health , poverty , disease , and disasters .  therefore , the cbc budget increases funding for these core development accounts with the overall goals of reducing poverty disparities and improving quality of life .  + $ 1 billion .  the cbc supports the research and development efforts of nasa , the national science foundation ( nsf ) , the national institute of standards and technologies ( nist ) , and the department of energy .  in addition to research and development , the cbc supports additional safety measures for the space shuttle program .  + $ 500 million .  the cbc is concerned about adequate funding for the preservation of historically black colleges and universities .  the alternative budget supports additional efforts to protect the historical heritage and important cultural role of hbcus in the united states .  + $ 50 million .  the cbc alternative budget supports farms owned by african-americans and other minorities .  the cbc realizes that these farmers continue to depend on the department of agriculture 's loan and grant programs and has allocated funding to modify cuts in agriculture programs that affect minorities .  the caucus 's priorities also include increasing funding for expanding food and nutrition education programs and for the usda office of civil rights .  + $ 300 million .  the cbc alternative budget works towards eliminating the housing and small business disparities created by the president 's fy06 budget .  the alternative budget allocates funding to the small business administration and the manufacturing extension partnership ( mep ) , and provides additional funding for adult training and dislocated workers programs .  by supporting these programs , the cbc is working to close the existing economic disparities in the u.s. and to help entrepreneurs realize the american dream .  + $ 1 billion .  the cbc believes that it is important to provide support for amtrak .  the caucus is also determined to ease the transportation disparities in the united states by funding public transportation .  + $ 150 million .  the cbc understands that federal support for community and regional development helps promote growth in economically distressed urban and rural communities .  to remedy these economic disparities , the cbc would like to ensure that the community development block grant ( cdbg ) program will continue to improve housing conditions in low to moderate income neighborhoods .  + $ 1.5 billion .  the cbc alternative budget represents a comprehensive approach to education and training by closing the achievement and opportunity gaps in education .  while the administration proposes eliminating 48 programs ( $ 4.3 billion cost ) , the cbc budget dramatically increases funding for education and training programs by $ 23.9 billion over the republican budget .  it provides funds for school construction , fully funds no child left behind , and provides critical funding for head start , gear-up , trio and idea .  for those in college , the cbc budget raises the maximum amount of pell grants .  in addition , the cbc budget funds the perkins loan programs as well as job training , adult education , and vocational education programs that are critical in today 's global economy .  + $ 23.9 billion .  the cbc alternative budget makes eliminating health care disparities a top priority by funding health care programs such as community health centers .  + $ 1 billion .  programs that serve children and families in times of need are essential to fixing the disparities that exist in the u.s. the cbc alternative budget supports additional funding for programs such as hope vi , section 8 housing , housing for the disabled and the elderly , low income home energy assistance and child nutrition .  + $ 2 billion .  the cbc is concerned about the proposed cuts that affect local law enforcement personnel and programs .  the alternative budget will help fix these budget disparities and fund the programs that keep our streets and neighborhoods safe .  moreover , the cbc understands the importance of providing adequate funding to juvenile justice programs that promote prevention and intervention .  these programs support effective local efforts that reduce crime and delinquency , save money , and save lives .  + $ 1 billion .  total defense funds used , all of which are reallocated to defense ( $ 1.1 b ) , homeland security needs ( $ 2.05 b ) , and veterans programs and benefits ( $ 4.65 b ) : $ 7.8 billion .  it is a priority of the cbc to provide american soldiers with the equipment necessary to return home from iraq in a safe , quick , and successful manner .  therefore , the cbc budget alternative reallocates $ 1.1 billion within defense .  these funds are used to protect our troops with body armor , personal gear , small arms and ammunition , as well as vehicle armor ; for the construction and maintenance of navy vessels in order to maintain the u.s. naval fleet and jobs associated with it ; and for other defense purposes to maintain our military strength .  - $ 6.7 billion .  the cbc understands that today 's soldiers are tomorrow 's veterans who deserve our respect for the sacrifices they made .  thus , the cbc alternative budget aims to make critical increases in veterans programs , especially funding for veterans health care , as well as long-term care initiatives , va medical and prosthetic research , and mental health care .  +4.65 billion .  the cbc understands that providing homeland security requires appropriate funding to meet the many pressing homeland security needs that face our nation .  the alternative budget therefore devotes additional resources for guarding against terrorist attacks through our rails and ports , including cargo screening that prevents nuclear or radiological weapons from entering the u.s. it also supports essential funding for the centers for disease control to help us prepare for a possible biological attack .  moreover , america depends on its first responders , federal air marshals , and boarder patrol agents ; the cbc alternative budget ensures that they -- and our collective homeland security effort -- receive the resources that are urgently needed to protect the citizens of the united states .  + $ 2.05 billion .  