mr. chairman , i yield myself as much time as i may consume .  mr. chairman , spending is out of control in the nation 's capital , and if we do not work to control this spending , we will leave our children and grandchildren a legacy of debt , a legacy of a lower standard of living , a legacy of more government , of less freedom , of less opportunity .  many people in this chamber have risen tonight to say that we are not spending enough money .  i think we should take a look at the facts .  number one , mr. chairman , we are now spending over $ 20 , 000 for american families .  for the first time since world war ii are we spending this much money .  for only the fourth time in the history of our nation , and if we look back just 10 years , almost every government agency has grown by a huge multiple overinflation .  international affairs is up 93 percent ; agriculture up 165 percent ; transportation , 78 percent ; education , 95 percent , and the list goes on and on and on .  we have been growing government at twice the rate of inflation and 50 percent faster than the family budget .  we believe that these growth rates are unsustainable and let us just not look at the past .  let us look at the future .  according to the congressional budget office , over the next decade social security is due to grow by 5.5 percent a year , medicaid by almost 8 percent a year and medicare by 9 percent a year .  we have an explosion of government spending , and yet many in this chamber want to spend even more , at the expense of american families .  where is this leading us ?  mr. chairman , most recently , the chairman of the federal reserve alan greenspan said , as a nation we may have already made promises to coming generations of retirees that we will be unable to fulfill .  according to the general accounting office , social security faces a serious and growing solvency and sustainability challenge that is growing as time passes .  according to the director of the office of management and budget , referring to social security , such chronic and growing obligations in the social security program are properly understood by the american public , including investors , as a sign that the program is out of balance and headed for bankruptcy .  according to the trustees of the social security and medicare trust funds , `` we do not believe the currently projected long run growth rates of social security and medicare are sustainable under current financing arrangements. '' the comptroller general of the general accountability office said , `` how this is resolved could effect not only our economic security but our national security .  we are headed to a future where we will have to either double federal taxes or cut federal spending by 50 percent. '' let me repeat that .  we are headed to a future where we will have to double federal taxes or cut federal spending by 50 percent .  mr. chairman , that is why it is so critical that today , not tomorrow , not next week , that we do something , something to begin to control spending in the united states congress .  first , i want to congratulate the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) of the committee on the budget for bringing forth to this body a truly historic budget , the most fiscally responsible budget we have seen since the reagan era , a budget that is serious about protecting the family budget from the federal budget .  but a combination of hope and fear has propelled me , on behalf of the republican study committee , to offer an alternative budget .  the hope is , as historic as the gentleman 's budget is , maybe given the seriousness of the challenge we have , maybe we can do just a little bit better on spending discipline .  my fear is , as great as the budget is that the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) has brought to this house , i want it to be a real budget .  i want to ensure that we have the mechanisms in place to ensure that we enforce the spending discipline .  how does this particular budget differ from the committee budget ?  there are a number of similarities , but let me describe a couple of differences .  whereas in the chairman 's budget we have a discretionary savings of a little less than 1 percent , this budget would achieve savings of roughly 2 percent .  it would further double the reconciliation savings in the nussle budget .  and finally , it includes a number of enforcement mechanisms to ensure that we can live with this budget , that the budget is something more than a suggestion , the budget is something more than a goal or an aspiration , that it is actually a limit on spending , that we draw a line in the sand and say we are going to take this much money away from american families and say this is it , we are going to live within our budgets .  mr. chairman , budgets tend to be about priorities ; and , indeed , this budget , the republican study committee budget , is about priorities .  we have a priority of saving social security , and we congratulate our president for bringing this issue to the american people .  i believe when the american people focus on social security , what they will realize is that government has been part of the problem .  they have raided the social security trust fund 59 times .  government took the money away from social security ; government should give the money back .  how does government give the money back ?  government can grow at a slower rate than it has in the past .  the second theme of this budget , the second priority of this budget , is we believe we have to protect the family budget from the federal budget .  is there really a compelling reason as families have to get around their kitchen table and have to make tough decisions that we in congress can not do the same thing ?  we do not believe that the federal budget should grow faster than the family budget , and this budget achieves that goal .  finally , we believe a budget ought to be a limit on spending .  we ought to decide , subject to emergency spending that we understand , that we ought to draw a line in the sand and say this is all we care to take away from the american people ; and when we tell the american people this is our budget , then this is the budget that we will live with .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  