madam chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  let me simply say that i think the chairman has produced a fair process .  he has treated the minority fairly and i very much appreciate that , but i believe the bill fails this country in many fundamental ways , and that failure is a direct result of the republican budget resolution which requires this committee to cut $ 11.7 billion below the amount needed to maintain current services for domestic discretionary programs .  as the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  , the majority leader , said 2 weeks ago , `` this is the budget that the american people voted for when they returned a republican house , a republican senate and a republican white house last november. '' i think that is true .  this is exactly what it means .  the republicans in this house voted by a vote of 218 to 212 to adopt that budget resolution .  not one single democrat voted for that budget resolution , because we recognized the damage that would be done by it .  now , we are told by members of the majority side we have limited resources .  we absolutely agree with that .  that is why this house should never have voted to eliminate all taxes on estates of over $ 7 million .  it should never have voted to give persons who make more than a million dollars $ 140 , 000 tax cuts next year and do it all with borrowed money because the result of that vote has been a $ 400 million cut in epa programs to improve the quality of our air and our water .  the result has been a 40 percent cut in the clean water revolving fund .  we have $ 388 billion worth of needs at the community level to fix sewer and water systems ; and yet this program is cut by 40 percent in this bill .  the damage done by this bill can not be fully understood unless we take a look at it in a broader context .  this is a great and growing country .  when i came to this congress , there were 203 million people in this country .  today , there are 282 million .  that is a 34 percent increase .  we are going to have another 26 million increase between now and 2010 .  when i came , there were 108 million cars in america .  today , there are 231 million cars .  that means more pollution .  it means more congestion .  it means more pressure on our national parks .  it means more pressure on the part of real estate developers .  it means more pressure on our sewer and water programs .  in the face of that new pressure , what are we getting out of this bill ?  we are getting a 34 percent reduction in the funding for the main bill that will help us to clean up our sewer and water problem .  i think that is an incredibly myopic decision .  in the teeth of all of that pressure , we are crippling epa .  we talk about how happy we are to see a slight increase in the national parks budget ; but in fact , there are still 720 positions in the national park service that continue to remain unfunded .  we have 200 of the 544 wildlife refuges that have no staff whatsoever .  in the teeth of all that expanded pressure , what do we get ?  despite this bill , we still have a $ 5 billion backlog in maintenance for the park service , a $ 13 billion backlog for our national forests .  i would like to see , for instance , this bill enable us to buy precious land at pope 's creek on the property where george washington was born before a real estate developer can grab it and turn it into condos ; but we are not going to be able to do that because this bill , for the first time in the 36 years i have been a member of this house , zero-funds land acquisition programs at both the state and the federal level .  we ought not to do that .  for two generations , we have had a bipartisan consensus behind certain minimal actions in the environmental area , especially in the area of clean water .  this bill unravels that consensus because it means we can talk a good game in terms of cleaning up our water and our air , but we are not going to put our dollars where our mouth is .  so i think , as the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay )  says , `` this is the budget that the american people voted for when they returned a republican house , a republican senate , and a republican white house last november. '' if you are satisfied with the results of this bill today , vote for it .  i intend to vote against it .  i think it is a disaster for the environmental consensus that we have built up with such hard work for so long .  