mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me time .  let me just go through some of the things that the congressional black caucus budget will do in various areas .  we are planning to submit this budget tomorrow , and we will be adding an additional $ 1 billion in the international affairs category for foreign aid to africa and the caribbean , global aids initiative in the state department , public health and preventable illness initiatives .  we will be adding half a billion dollars in general science , space and technology in the following areas : nasa research and development , nasa space shuttle safety , restore research and development funding for the national science foundation , department of energy .  we will be adding an additional $ 50 million in the natural resources and environment , historically black colleges and university preservation program .  we will be adding $ 300 million in the agriculture budget in support of the 1890 land-grant historically black colleges and universities , expanded food and nutrition education programs , the u.s. department of agriculture office of civil rights .  and we will be restoring and modifying some of the draconian cuts in agriculture programs that affect minorities in particular .  we will be adding $ 1 billion in commerce and housing credit for sba loan programs , the 7 ( a ) program , microloan , and new market venture programs , adult training and dislocated worker programs , manufacturing extension partnerships , home ownership initiatives .  we will be adding $ 150 million in transportation , most of which will go to amtrak .  we will be adding $ 1.5 billion to community and regional development to restore the cuts that have been proposed by the president in the community development block grants , increased funding for brownfields economic development , empowerment zones , community development , financial institutions , economic development assistance .  we will be adding $ 23.9 billion in education and training with which we will fully fund the no child left behind .  that is $ 12 billion to fully fund no child left behind .  we will be adding $ 50 million to elementary and secondary school counseling , vocational training , job training , adult education , pell grants , head start , individuals with disabilities , idea , historically black colleges and universities , hispanic serving institutions , trio , gaining early awareness of readiness .  that is the gear-up program , restoring that .  perkins loans , impact aid .  in the area of health we will be adding $ 1 billion .  in the area of administration of justice we will be adding $ 1 billion .  and over on the defense side we are going to be adding money for body armor , personal support equipment , and other protective gear for our troops , ammunition for the marine corps , small arms for the army .  we will be adding $ 4.65 billion for veterans programs , veterans health care , survivor benefit plans , disabled veterans plans , prosthetic needs for veterans , va medical and prosthetic research , mental health care for veterans .  and we will be adding $ 2 billion in homeland security for rail security and port security .  now , you are wondering how can the congressional black caucus do all of this ?  it is simple .  simply roll back the tax cut on people who make above $ 200 , 000 a year .  and all we are saying to our members in this body is that these things that i have just described are much higher priorities .  even to people that i know who make more than $ 200 , 000 a year , they think these things are higher priorities than getting a little extra tax cut .  and i just entreat my members to please support the congressional black caucus budget .  it is a sane budget .  it is good .  