mr. chairman , i thank the chairman and the ranking member , but i am deeply concerned about a possible indian gambling casino in the columbia river gorge national scenic area .  i have had these concerns for at least 7 years , and i am extremely disappointed in recent developments .  the governor of oregon signed a compact with this tribe on april 6 and it was presented to the department of the interior on april 8. i have been consistent in my position and i have privately informed the confederate tribes of the warm springs reservation and governor kulongoski and his predecessor governor kitzaber throughout my congressional career that i specifically do not support a casino in the columbia river gorge national scenic area , and that generally i oppose off-reservation gaming casinos .  i have persisted in suggesting to the warm springs tribe that they consider a new location on reservation land along a highly traveled route , namely highway 26 , between portland , oregon , and bend , oregon .  this particular proposal came to the federal government on april 8 , and it is necessary that i weigh in now .  i am asking secretary norton to disapprove the tribal-state compact , because this casino will hurt the columbia river gorge , other tribes and all oregonians .  i understand the secretary intends to approve this compact , but that only starts the process .  i am here to tell the secretary and the tribe that congress will not be silent while the crown jewel of oregon 's natural heritage gets trashed .  i have been a supporter of preserving the columbia river gorge national scenic area and i will continue to do so .  a casino of this magnitude will bring over 3 million non-gorge-related visitors per year , a million cars per year to the area , and exacerbate traffic , pollution , and risks to endangered species in the columbia river gorge national scenic area .  i am pro-gorge , and i am troubled that there is a possibility of disturbing this crown jewel of oregon 's natural heritage .  i will actively oppose this proposal and do everything i can to protect the gorge .  state and federal agencies have already determined that air quality in the columbia river gorge is significantly degraded and that visibility is impaired 95 percent of the time within this national scenic area .  also , according to the united states department of agriculture forest service pacific southwest research station , this area suffers acid rain and fog as severe as what falls in industrial cities such as los angeles , pittsburgh , and new york .  mr. chairman , states such as oregon , nevada , louisiana , rhode island , and south dakota derive state taxes from casinos , slot machines , and lotteries for more than 10 percent of their overall state revenues .  oregon must not become further dependent on gambling .  in all the states i listed , budgetary problems persist and gambling does not solve their problems .  we should not sacrifice our national treasures , our communities , or our souls upon the alter of indian casino gambling .  