mr. speaker , we come here with a heavy heart .  i urge the members of this house to do our duty to pass the schiavo act .  its purpose is simple -- to allow the federal courts to review this matter in the light of terri 's constitutional rights .  that 's not a lot to ask .  over the last few days , members of both parties and chambers have worked tirelessly to reach this agreement .  we hope that these efforts will help give terri schiavo new hope and a new chance at life .  we have heard very moving accounts of people close to terri that she is indeed , very much alive .  she laughs , she cries and she smiles with those around her .  she is aware of her surroundings and is responsive to them .  this is a woman who deserves a chance at life and not a death sentence of starvation and dehydration .  it is our hope that this bill will give terri a new hope of life .  it takes her case out of the florida court system and puts it in the hands of the federal court .  there , her case will be tried anew where the judge can reevaluate and reassess terri 's medical condition .  oddly enough , on this very day last year , the pope addressed a group of participants in an international congress on life-sustaining treatments .  the pope said a human being 's value and personal dignity do not change no matter what his or her circumstances .  and i quote : a man , even if seriously ill or disabled in the exercise of his highest functions , is and always will be a man , and he will never become a `` vegetable '' or an `` animal. '' i urge every member of this people 's house to carry these words in their hearts as we vote .  today , we have the opportunity to give a woman another chance to live .  it is our turn to fulfill the promises etched in the declaration of independence to make life more perfect for the pursuit of life .  i want to thank my colleagues leader delay , majority whip blunt , representative oberstar , chairman sensenbrenner and dr .  weldon for helping us to get this life saving bill together .  i want the schindler family to know that no matter what happens , our hearts and prayers will continue to be with you .  