mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for yielding me this time .  i wanted the opportunity to address the issue of the funding that has gone in on behalf of terri schiavo , and the report that i have put together , i could easily add several hundred thousand dollars to that that have gone towards attorneys and towards the interests of michael schiavo as opposed to the interests of terri schiavo .  i would have a documented report that i would file with the & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; congressional record , except that the trust fund for terri schiavo has been sealed at the request of the attorney on behalf of michael schiavo .  so , therefore , we can not get those records .  we do not know what is going on behind the scenes .  what we know is that she has not had tests , she has not had therapy , and she has been denied medical treatment .  the attorney of record for michael schiavo happens to also have been a former member of the board of directors of the hospice where terri schiavo is now being taken care of .  and by the way , i happen to have another piece of information that flowed to me today , a gao audit looked in on that and that organization paid $ 14.8 million back in medicaid fees that were inappropriately collected .  another question we have is , we do not know whether there is a life insurance policy that would name someone as beneficiary in the event of the death of terri schiavo .  the question has been asked of the guardian several times , and he has refused to answer every time .  so we can not even evaluate the assets or the intent of the guardian .  those issues will be looked at by the court .  another issue that should be addressed , and we will hear this continually as this 3-hour debate goes on , is the allegation that 19 judges have reviewed this and 19 judges have concurred .  i have put together the full list of the judges that have heard the case of terri schiavo in the history of this , and throughout all of that i can identify judge greer , and i can identify a three-judge panel that heard her case en banc , and i can identify the supreme court of the state of florida , which we saw perform a number of times in the year 2000 , and also the united states supreme court , which simply refused or denied cert on the subpoenas last week .  so if we are going to count judges sitting en banc and if we are going to count supreme courts in totals of 7 and 9 , that narrows it down pretty much to one judge that has seen and reviewed all this case and that is judge greer .  and i believe that terri schiavo deserves her day in court .  she deserves a de novo review .  she deserves an opportunity to be heard and an opportunity at life .  