mr. speaker , i rise in strenuous opposition to this unfair bill .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to s. 256 .  this bankruptcy bill is touted as reform , but it is actually a wolf in sheep 's clothing intended to allow credit card companies and other lenders to gouge consumers when they are most vulnerable .  republicans are giving this gift to big credit card companies at a time when many americans are faced with uncertain job stability , retirement security , and health coverage .  in fact , 90 % of all bankruptcies are filed due to the common financial emergency of a lost job or lack of medical coverage .  this bill makes it harder for working families to seek shelter from these devastating and unavoidable expenses .  the wall street journal recently featured the case of a constituent in my district .  crystal herndon , a single mom in haywood , california , earns $ 15 an hour .  ms. herndon got sick with pneumonia , causing her to miss six weeks of work and rack up over $ 5 , 000 in medical bills .  these unforeseen expenses caused her to fall behind on other financial obligations , and before she knew it she was simply unable to make ends meet .  bankruptcy protection was the only way out for ms. herndon and her family .  it 's hard to see the abuse in real instances of need such as these , especially when many americans live paycheck to paycheck .  sadly crystal herndon is not the only worker to be forced into bankruptcy due to unavoidable medical expenses .  according to a recent harvard university research study 2 million americans , including filers and their dependents , face the double jeopardy of illness and bankruptcy each year .  most of these medically bankrupt are middle-class homeowners with responsible jobs and health insurance coverage .  once illness strikes , high co-payments , deductibles , exclusions from coverage , and other loopholes quickly overwhelm these families ' budgets .  loss of income and health insurance often deepen this financial crisis when a breadwinner becomes too sick to work .  to add insult to injury , consumers like crystal herndon will potentially face an avalanche of litigation that they ca n't afford as a result of this bill .  the bill requires the debtor in some cases to have to challenge big corporate lenders in court to prove they are eligible to seek relief under chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code .  in addition , this bill also allows creditors to threaten debtors with costly ligitation that will force many families to needlessly give up their legal rights .  in their continuing compassion , the republicans have crafted this so-called reform so that a parent seeking child support from a bankrupt spouse will have to fight it out with creditors in order to receive payment .  meanwhile , this bill makes it easier for those seeking bankruptcy protection to lose their homes or be evicted by the landlords .  yet , those with million dollar mansions will be able to keep their homes even while seeking the same protection under the law .  nothing like a fair shake for america 's working families .  finally , mr. speaker , with all of the perks they 've awarded to the big credit card companies , republicans have done nothing to ensure that they are held accountable for their role in this consumer crisis .  there is nothing is this bill that stops the abusive , predatory lending that lands too many americans in bankruptcy in the first place .  bankruptcy has always been about giving a fresh start to those who have fallen on hard times .  the link between illness , job loss , and health insurance is a harsh reality in our country today .  it is morally reprehensible to suggest that we exploit medical tragedies befalling honest , hardworking americans in order to grant the wishes of the credit card companies .  i urge my colleagues to vote down this merciless legislation .  now is not the time to turn the tables on america 's working families .  vote no on s. 256 .  