mr. speaker , i yield myself 1 minute .  in response to the gentlewoman , i have got a letter from the national child support enforcement association , february 8 , 2005 , that i will insert for printing in the record .  let me just read one paragraph , the first and most important : `` the national child support enforcement association is a membership organization representing the child support community -- a workforce of over 63 , 000 child support professionals .  for the past 5 years , it has strongly supported the enactment of bankruptcy reform because the treatment of child support and alimony under present bankruptcy law so desperately needs reform .  we applaud your continuing efforts since the mid-1990s to reform the bankruptcy system and welcome your introduction of s. 256 .  the bankruptcy bill , s. 256 , like the reform bills of the last three congresses and the signed conference report of 2002 , includes provisions crucial to the collection of child support during bankruptcy. '' enforcement association , washington , dc , feb .  8 , 2005 .  dear senator grassley : the national child support enforcement association is the membership organization representing the child support community -- a workforce of over 63 , 000 child support professionals .  for the past 5 years it has strongly supported the enactment of bankruptcy reform because the treatment of child support and alimony under present bankruptcy law so desperately needs reform .  we applaud your continuing efforts since the mid 1990s to reform the bankruptcy system and welcome your introduction of s. 256 .  the bankruptcy bill , s. 256 , like the reform bills of the last three congresses and the signed conference report of 2002 , includes provisions crucial to the collection of child support during bankruptcy .  with each day that passes under current law , countless numbers of children of bankruptcy debtors are subject to immediate interruption of their on-going support payments .  in addition , during the lengthy 3 to 5 years duration of consumer bankruptcies as they happen every day under present law , debtors often succeed in significantly delaying or even avoiding repayment of child support and alimony arrearages altogether .  hardest hit by these effects of current bankruptcy law are former recipients of welfare who are owed support arrears but are stuck waiting until the bankruptcy is completed before such debts can be collected .  families who are dependent on obtaining their share of marital property for survival may now find under present bankruptcy law that such debts are discharged .  and , worst of all , under present law significant collection tools used to require the payment of current s. 256 would provide these children with first priority in the collection of support debts , allow the enforcement of medical support obligations , prevent any interruption in the otherwise efficient process of withholding earnings for payment of child support , and insure that during the course of a consumer bankruptcy all support owed to the family would be paid , and paid timely .  it will allow state court actions involving custody and visitation , dissolution of marriage , and domestic violence to proceed without interference from bankruptcy court litigation .  we , therefore , urge the members of the conference committee and the leadership of congress to enact this important piece of legislation with its long overdue bankruptcy reforms .  sincerely , margot bean , mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  