mr. speaker , i rise in support of the rule and the bill .  this legislation is perhaps the most important bill we will deal with in this session .  the lack of a comprehensive energy plan is hurting our families and our economy .  global energy demand is soaring , america 's natural resources are finite and flat , rising energy imports are driving record trade deficits as runaway energy costs drag down the u.s. economy .  unless we implement a long-term , comprehensive energy plan , americans will pay even more to heat their homes , drive their cars to work , and feed their families and provide other essentials for our loved ones .  for the members of this chamber , this bill is our opportunity to ensure a better future .  the committee on energy and commerce , along with other committees of jurisdiction , have produced an energy bill that recognizes today 's needs while preparing for the future .  to meet today 's energy needs , this legislation does several things .  it expands the nation 's natural gas supply , primarily by clarifying the federal government 's role in lng facilities .  it increases our supplies of gasoline and diesel by adding new refineries , limiting the number of specialty blends , and establishing a 5-billion-gallon renewable fuel standard .  this energy bill adds diversity to our energy portfolio by encouraging more nuclear power , clean coal , and renewable energies .  it doubles our efforts in energy conservation and efficiency , it reduces america 's dangerous dependence on foreign oil , and improves our nation 's electrical transmissions .  but this energy bill looks beyond the horizon as well .  by boosting the use of hydrogen fuel cells , microturbines , and other forms of new energy technologies , we can begin preparing to meet the energy demands of tomorrow .  i was proud to work with my colleague from across the aisle , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. doyle )  to double the authorized funding for this year 's hydrogen title .  it is just one of many forward-thinking provisions in this legislation .  the energy sector represents a $ 650 billion piece of the american economy .  it is the engine that powers other sectors of the u.s. economy , and i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on the rule and the bill .  