madam chairman , friday is earth day , but that will not stop the republicans from passing legislation that will make the earth dirtier , more polluted and warmer .  the republican legislation favors corporate america over main street in america .  it will neither ask nor answer any of the energy issues that threaten our environment , our economy and future generations .  instead , the republicans will answer the greatest challenge of our time by telling americans to dig deeper into their pockets for big oil .  at a time when america needs energy vision , republicans have provided us with their corporate donor lists .  despite soaring prices , despite dangers to our economy and security for our dependence on oil , the administration puts forward the deal of the century for big oil , gas and coal .  it rewards its friends and encourages america 's addiction to oil .  nothing in this bill will lower gasoline prices a single penny .  nothing in this bill will alter our dependence on oil .  nothing in this bill will address the needs and concerns of the american people facing economic peril at the pump every morning when they put $ 50 worth of gas into their car .  instead , americans from maine to california will pay at the pump and pay through the nose .  big oil 's profits today defy description .  the ceo of exxonmobil who does not think global warming is real was paid $ 38 million last year .  the price of crude oil jumped $ 2 a barrel yesterday .  that added $ 1 billion of earnings to mobil 's earnings .  maybe that explains why oil and gas companies have reduced their investment in facilities by 20 percent even as their profits have increased 400 percent .  the oil and gas industry is sitting atop a mountain of cash looking down on americans who are held hostage by runaway gas prices that grow the mountain of oil prices even higher .  and we are giving them $ 7 billion more today .  they do not need it .  across the country gasoline prices are 20 percent higher than they were a year ago .  neither wages nor economic opportunities come close to bridging that kind of deficit for the american family .  the only choice for more americans is to pay more , save less , use consumer debt .  oh , yeah , remember the bankruptcy bill ?  and give up something to make the frayed ends meet , while exxonmobil 's ceo pockets $ 38 million .  with the price of crude oil sky high , you would think we would be declaring a 12-alarm economic fire that endangers the lives of every american family and the economic health of our economy .  let me quote something that sums this up .  `` we are grossly wasting our energy resources and other precious raw materials as though their supply was infinite. '' president jimmy carter spoke those words in 1976 , almost 30 years ago .  we laughed at him when he put on a sweater and said maybe we should turn the thermostat down 1 degree .  yet today americans propose a policy that seeks to roll backward from the ominous warnings of the mid-1970s .  america needs vision and leadership , but the republicans will pass a bill that endorses and rewards the traditional forms of energy .  it proposes cutting billions in promising renewable energy provisions .  it proposes waiving liability for companies that pollute our groundwater .  it subsidizes oil , gas and coal .  it fails to address meaningful automobile conservation .  and worst of all , we are going to go up to the alaska wildlife refuge and we are going to drill .  we are going to drill our way to oblivion if we follow this pattern .  