mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  first i would like to thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert )  , chairman of the committee on science , and the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert )  , chair of the subcommittee on energy , for their hard work and cooperation in developing the foundation of title ix , the r & amp ; d title of this bill .  a stable domestic energy supply is essential to the economic well-being and security of our nation .  while the bill on the floor today has provisions that are not acceptable to many democrats and republicans , there are good points worth mentioning in title ix .  of particular note are the provisions ensuring greater doe cooperation with the smaller colleges and universities who will train our next generation of scientists , mathematicians , technicians and teachers .  the department , as well as the traditional large research universities , could benefit from the enormous pool of talented researchers in the nation 's smaller colleges and universities , and i encourage greater collaboration .  i would also like to highlight the work of several of our members on key components of doe research and development in title ix : the interest of the gentleman from california ( mr. honda )  in the progress of the next generation lighting initiative , the stanford linear accelerator and the joint genomics institute and his work with the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. larson )  on transit bus demonstrations of fuel cells ; the continued dedication of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey )  and the gentleman from colorado ( mr. udall )  to clean , renewable and efficient energy technologies ; the work of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. costello )  to ensure that utilization of our vast coal resources only gets cleaner and more efficient ; the vision of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. zoe lofgren )  in support of domestic fusion energy research and international fusion projects ; the work of the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. davis )  to ensure good science continues at oak ridge national laboratory , particularly in the area of high-end computing ; the efforts of the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. miller )  to establish a nationwide network of advanced energy technology transfer centers to get technologies off the laboratory shelf and into the marketplace ; finally , the tireless commitment of the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee )  to research and development at historically black colleges and universities and other minority-serving institutions .  the committee on science contributed virtually all of title ix , the research and development title of this bill .  while research and development programs typically have not been controversial , i believe the title ix provisions represent a major part of this legislation .  the r & amp ; d programs authorized in this bill will provide the means to produce energy that this country will need for the foreseeable future .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  