mr. chairman , coal is by far the largest domestic source of energy we produce .  here in the united states , we have between 250 and 300 years of a coal supply .  that is more than the amount of recoverable oil contained in the entire world .  i am proud to represent the anthracite coal fields of pennsylvania , which have the largest anthracite coal deposit in north america , arguably the largest deposit in the world .  it is a high-btu , low-sulfur fuel , and is considered the cleanest-burning solid fuel on the commercial market today .  but as we can see through rising fuel prices , we are too dependent upon foreign oil .  in the united states , we consume about 20.5 million barrels of oil per day .  that 's about 7.5 billion barrels per year .  half of that is imported .  and almost half of american oil consumption is for motor vehicles .  one of our priorities should be to reduce our dependence on foreign oil .  we should be increasing research and development into our fossil fuel program .  with continued research of coal , the potential of the united states becoming energy self-sufficient in an environmentally friendly manner is enhanced .  for over 15 years , through the clean coal programs of the department of energy , the federal government has been a solid partner , working jointly with private companies and the states to develop and demonstrate a new generation of environmentally clean technology using coal .  one benefit of the clean coal programs takes advantage of a decades ' old technology of converting coal and waste coal into clean diesel fuel .  in pennsylvania alone , there is an excess of 200-300 million tons of waste coal that has accumulated over the years .  a company in gilberton , pennsylvania , in my district , is ready to do convert this waste coal to diesel fuel and electricity on a large scale .  the plant has received support from doe 's clean coal power initiative .  coal research and development provides huge benefits for the nation , and pay for itself many times over through taxes flowing back to the treasury from expanded economic activity .  the clean coal programs are important for several reasons .  they : clean up the environment by burning waste coal ; reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and air toxics ; develop cleaner , more efficient power systems ; sponsor promising technologies that are too risky for private industry to undertake alone ; provide a model for future government-industry technology partnerships ; and provide tremendous job opportunities in this country , not in the middle east .  in 2002 , president bush said , `` we will promote clean coal technology. '' the president recently outlined four important objectives that need to be included in this energy bill .  these objectives are all met by clean coal programs : encourage the use of technology to improve conservation ; encourage more production at home in environmentally sensitive ways ; diversify our energy supply by developing alternative sources of energy and create more energy choices ; and help us find better , more reliable ways to deliver energy to consumers .  we need to take advantage of our own natural resources .  i encourage my colleagues to continue to support clean coal programs .  