mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time .  mr. chairman , i agree with the chairman of the committee on science .  we have an opportunity to do better .  i hope that we do better as we improve the hydrogen title of this bill .  perhaps the other body will have a title that will work a little bit better in the hydrogen area , and i hope that we will catch the vision of a different way of getting around .  imagine that one takes delivery today in spartanburg , south carolina of a brand new bmw .  it runs on hydrogen .  it is powered and controlled by a computer , maybe made by ibm , maybe software by microsoft .  these are companies committed to making hydrogen and to making smart cars work .  they get in the car , they program it to go somewhere , they take their hands off the wheel .  it seems like science fiction , but the good news is that we on the committee on science are in the business of making science fiction into reality , and it is not that far away .  if we can make a commitment like we made when we decided to go to the moon , we can get there .  we as a nation can decide that now is the time to really commit to forging ahead to create a hydrogen economy .  now is the time to be spending good money on that .  it is time to stop simple spending and start thoughtful investing .  there is a big difference .  in this bill we have the opportunity to do just that , to invest serious money in the technology that can lead us to a hydrogen economy .  if we do that , we will do good work for the american people and we will lessen our dependence on middle eastern oil .  and , by the way , it is also about jobs .  if we can retool the automobile and make it so that we not just develop the technology but also produce it here , we can tremendously expand the economy of the united states , providing jobs and , while doing that , cleaning up the environment and reducing the oil pressure on the middle east .  that is a trifecta .  let us get about it with a better title .  