mr. chairman , i rise today in objection to h.r. 6 , the energy bill under consideration by the full house of representatives this week .  sadly , the energy bill does little to reduce our nation 's dependence on foreign oil , decrease rising oil and gas prices , increase our national security , protect our environment , or encourage investment in renewable energy sources .  in fact , mr. chairman , of the $ 8 billion in tax breaks in this bill , only about 6 percent goes toward energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy , and the rest goes to the already booming oil and natural gas industry that already receives more than generous incentives .  and we 're not getting anything back from this disproportionate investment .  the administration 's own energy information administration acknowledges that with this bill , `` changes to production , consumption , imports , and prices are negligible. '' they even find that gasoline prices under this legislation would increase by between three and eight cents per gallon .  clearly , this measure is a short sighted political move aimed at winning friends and contributors instead of what it should be -- a long term plan to ease the energy burden on consumers and make the united states safer and energy independent -- and that 's a shame .  as a member of the committee on government reform 's subcommittee on energy and natural resources , i know all too well how energy needs shape our foreign policy and our national security agenda .  our desperate need for oil pits us against china and india .  it forces us into a position of funding governments and world leaders who funnel our payments to groups that are currently planning to do us harm .  and our need for oil from foreign markets forces our brave armed service men and women into harm 's way to protect our vital interests .  but oil need not be the lead driver in our national security policy .  we have resources at home like water , wind and sun that , with research and investment , can produce cleaner energy sources and cheaper alternatives , can reduce our dependence on foreign oil , and can create jobs and spur spending here at home .  just outside my district , with the water heaving over the niagara falls , we convert water into electricity every day .  it 's a shame this bill does n't address similar options around the country .  all too often i hear from my constituents in western new york that too many low-income families , disabled individuals and senior citizens are not able to afford their energy costs .  my district is particularly hard hit with extreme cold temperatures , which cause more families to face unaffordable heating costs and put families and seniors at a higher risk of life-threatening illness or death if their homes are too cold in the winter or too hot in the summer .  i will vote against the energy bill on the floor because this legislation ignores my constituents ' needs and adds to their troubles through higher prices , an increased tax burden , more pollution , and less national security .  i urge my colleagues to do the same .  