madam chairman , i rise today in strong opposition to the energy policy act of 2005 .  madam chairman , this bill represents a lost opportunity .  now , more than ever , we need an energy bill that will wean the nation off of foreign oil .  we need to do this so hard-working americans are no longer subjected to the ever-rising costs of gasoline and we have to do this for the safety and security of our nation .  in my home district , the average price for a gallon of regular unleaded is $ 2.22 compared to $ 1.76 just one year ago .  yet , the bill before us will do nothing to relieve americans from the skyrocketing costs of gas .  my colleagues , even the bush administration recognizes this ; with the energy information administration saying that the bill would actually increase gas prices rather than reduce them .  what 's worse is that while the bill does nothing to relieve americans of their burden at the gas pump , it also takes an additional $ 7.5 billion out of their pockets as a tax giveaway to oil , gas , coal and nuclear industries -- industries that are earning record profits -- without setting a course towards energy independence .  the president himself said , just last week , `` with $ 55 oil we do n't need incentives for oil and gas companies to explore .  there are plenty of incentives. '' this congress needs to establish an energy policy that sets america free from its dependence on imported oil .  yet , only seven percent of the tax incentives in this bill will go towards renewable energy and energy efficiency -- leaving us to be reliant on the same old energy sources .  h.r. 6 is , unfortunately , par for the course for the republican leadership , which has turned a blind eye to scientific discovery -- be it medical , physical , or otherwise .  america can not continue to be a world leader with regard to scientific discovery unless we invest and provide incentives , including for energy sources of the future .  in addition to its misdirected energy priorities , the bill contains several dirty little footnotes .  it will pollute our air and water and exploit our federal lands .  it exempts mtbe manufacturers from cleaning up the groundwater they polluted -- violating our nation 's longstanding polluter pay policy .  it will let oil and gas companies off the hook from the safe water drinking act -- allowing them to skirt water standards .  mr. speaker , we can not continue to go down the same worn out path .  we must set the nation on a course to energy independence which means promoting cleaner , less expensive energy that we control .  that requires a balanced energy policy that aids domestic production but , more importantly , sends us in a new direction by investing in renewable and energy efficient technologies .  unfortunately , h.r. 6 does not meet this goal , leaving our senate colleagues to find a better way .  hopefully , they will be able to craft a bill that achieves a better balance than this legislation .  i urge a `` no '' vote on h.r. 6 .  