mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from texas for yielding me this time to speak in favor of this bill , and i thank him for his great leadership to bring this bill to the floor .  for 6 years now , the president of the united states has been saying that one of our primary failings as a country was to have an energy policy that moved forward .  for three congresses , our body has responded to that , first with the leadership of the gentleman from texas as chairman of the subcommittee , and now with his leadership as chairman of the full committee , bringing an energy bill to the house floor for three straight congresses .  what we do here today and tomorrow can be extremely important to solve the problems that we see at the gas pumps today , to solve the problems that we see if you try to buy fertilizer today , to solve the natural gas problems .  now , it will not solve these problems next week or next month , or even maybe the month after that .  if , however , we had passed the bill my colleague had brought to the floor 4 years ago , these problems we see today would not be the large problems that we see today .  and for the leadership of this chairman , the leadership of the chairman of the committee on ways and means , and the leadership of the chairman of the committee on resources , i am grateful .  i am also grateful to our friends on the other side , led by the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell )  .  they did the hard work they did in the markup .  while they may not have agreed with all of the final product , certainly many parts of this product benefited from the work they did on this committee .  one of the things we have done is illustrated here by a map that just shows how many kinds of fuel there are all over the united states .  we have tried to limit the numbers of those fuels in this bill , and even asked the epa to look to the future and see what that right number is .  every time you make gasoline less of a commodity and make it more of a specialty item , you increase the cost , reduce the reliability , and the access to gasoline .  we hope to move away from that .  we hope to do more things to use conservation and use renewable fuels .  this is the right step .  it is after the right time .  i wish i could say it is the right step at the right time , but , mr. chairman , it is not the fault of our committee or our body .  we need to move forward now .  i urge passage of this bill .  