mr. chairman , i rise today to express my concerns with the army corps of engineers and my hope that language included in this bill will rein their disregard for congressional requests .  i concur with the committee 's expressed dissatisfaction with the army corps managing of water projects and their excessive transfer of funds between projects .  many of us have long been frustrated with the army corps is their mishandling of projects throughout the nation .  although congress authorizes and appropriates specific projects , the army corps repeatedly ignores these guidelines and sets their own priorities .  this has resulted significant delays that further distress the communities near these uncompleted projects .  in the 12th congressional district , the environmental restoration of grover 's mill pond is a most egregious example of the army corps disregard for congressionally mandated projects .  located at the site made famous by orson wells ' `` war of the worlds '' radio broadcast , grover 's mill pond is not only a historic site , but it is a recreation destination within west windsor township and a vital link in the township 's stream corridors and watershed area .  years of sediment build-up and runoff from the watershed have caused the pond to become overrun with aquatic weeds and algae .  this pond in its current condition is not only an eyesore for the community and the residents that live near it , but gives off an unpleasant odor in the summer .  completion of this project is long overdue , and could have been completed had the army corps not transferred almost all of the $ 500 , 000 that was specifically designated by congress for this project .  thankfully , the committee has once again designated funding for this project , and i expect that the army corps will follow congressional designation and not once again shortchange my constituents in favor of a project they deem more worthy .  unfortunately , other unfinished projects in my district such as mccarter 's pond and rogers pond did not receive additional funding in this bill .  i am hopeful that the strong and clear direction the committee has given the army corps in this bill will force them to complete such projects in the future and encourage them not to create such unpleasant situations in the future .  i thank the committee for their desire to assist my constituents and this nation by providing additional funds for unfinished projects and expressing their severe dissatisfaction with the army corps management of water projects .  i hope this legislation will serve as an important step in reforming this agency and ensuring that our communities receive the environmental restoration assistance they desperately need .  