mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's concerns .  the gentleman has raised two issues : one is process and one is substance .  on the process side , the gentleman is correct .  and the gentleman would have to ask the speaker about the process of bringing the rules to the floor in a bipartisan way .  and i do not want to second-guess the speaker , and the gentleman may well have a good argument on process .  but in the substance , the gentleman is correct .  and i hope all members are watching this because they need to consider this very strongly , that the gentleman can not have it both ways .  the gentleman wants a bipartisan process .  the speaker was bringing a bipartisan process , which means that in order to proceed to an investigative subcommittee you would have to have a majority vote , which would be bipartisan , a bipartisan vote to proceed to the investigative committee .  what some partisans had found , that if there was no agreement and charges brought against a member , the member would be hung out to dry .  there would be no action , or there could be automatic action without a majority vote of the committee .  that is the problem .  that is what allows people to use it for partisan politics is that if one side or the other decides to deadlock the ethics committee , then the member that has been charged can be held out and held up for many days , if not months , before a resolution of that charge comes .  the speaker came up with a way to make sure that the committee is bipartisan because it requires a bipartisan vote to move forward .  the gentleman is suggesting that he would like to change , for the house and the rights of the members , something that is so different than the rules of procedures in courts of law .  if a grand jury is deadlocked in an indictment , there is no process that goes forward .  if there is a full jury in a trial that is deadlocked , there is no process that goes forward .  it has to be clear , without a reasonable doubt , with no reasonable doubt that the offense is right and needs to proceed .  and that is why the speaker created a bipartisan process for that to proceed .  and it can work for both sides politically .  it can work for democrats as well as republicans .  and that is why i say the speaker was trying and worked very hard to protect the rights of the accused , and more important than that , the rights of each and every member of this house .  