mr. chairman , i rise to make remarks on the subrogation provision in the price anderson section of h.r. 6 .  mr. chairman , i would like to discuss a provision in this bill that i have some concerns with .  i have the pleasure of representing the department of energy sites in oak ridge , tennessee .  this site is a natural asset that not only has a vitally important defense mission , a growing and prominent science mission , but an ongoing active environmental cleanup activity .  i am proud of the caliber of contractors we have in oak ridge and the work they do for our country .  i have some concerns with section 612 in the nuclear title of this bill .  this provision , dealing with price anderson act indemnity , is reportedly designed to make doe contractors more `` financially accountable '' for their actions in support of the doe nuclear mission .  the fact is that there are already a wide variety of mechanisms in place to ensure doe contractor accountability : from civil penalties of up to $ 110 , 000 a day ; to stop work orders ; to contract terminations ; to criminal fines and imprisonment .  there is no evidence that additional sanctions are needed .  in the 48-year history of price anderson , no government contractors have been found to have engaged in `` willful misconduct. '' are we willing to ask the government 's best contractors at all levels , the ones we want involved in this business , to face significantly increased financial risks that have and will likely remain uninsurable ?  i believe that we presently have sufficient mechanisms in place to hold the contracting community accountable .  the inclusion of this provision in the final energy bill will have the opposite effect as intended .  rather than adding to financial accountability it will drive the most prudent and best performing contractors out of the doe nuclear market .  i do not want to imagine a time when the activities at oak ridge are not being conducted by the most qualified doe contractors .  if section 612 was enacted , i fear that it will have a detrimental impact on not only the defense mission of doe , but on most of the government 's nuclear science activities .  i look forward to working with chairman barton and the energy and commerce committee to perfect this provision as we head to conference with the senate .  