mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from indiana for yielding me this time .  i want to urge strong support for the fiscal year 2006 energy and water bill .  this legislation provides investment in water infrastructure essential not only to our country but to the texas economy .  i want to thank the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson )  , the gentleman from indiana ( mr. visclosky )  and also the gentleman from texas ( mr. edwards )  for their assistance on these projects , particularly two flood projects , hunting and greens bayous in my district .  thousands of my constituents ' homes and businesses are at risk from catastrophic flooding in these areas , and the funding in this bill , $ 500 , 000 and $ 150 , 000 each , keeps these projects on track .  i would also like to express my strong support for the $ 26 million included for the houston ship channel deepening and widening project .  this funding means we are on track to complete the deepening and widening this year and begin the barge lanes and environmental restoration .  however , the tough operations and maintenance budget of the corps could have counterproductive effects .  the houston ship channel budget is $ 5 million under capability for 2006 .  if we can not maintain our channels to the right depth , then modern ships will not be able to take advantage of this new project .  the project will also suffer as millions taken out through reprogramming are not returned as promised by the corps .  the new policy to rein in reprogramming by requiring committee approval over $ 1 million is very sound .  reprogramming goes against the letter , number and intent of congress .  financial stability is essential and large investments are made on the basis of congressional appropriations .  more market risk equals higher cost for all the projects .  we should note a few brief points about projects that have been lost to reprogramming in the past and need to be made whole .  it seems unjust that the solution to restore the letter and spirit of the law falls on the backs of the most recent victims of reprogramming such as our houston ship channel who had reprogrammed dollars not returned .  mr. chairman , i include for printing in the record written commitments from the corps under two administrations .  the word and spirit of these commitments are to honor congressional appropriations law .  congressional and corps promises deserve to be honored .  that is the same principle behind the extremely wise reprogramming policy of the future in this bill .  however , we should allow the corps to fulfill its past commitments .  again , i would like to thank the chair and the ranking member of the subcommittee and the full committee for making this bill possible .  department of the army , southwestern division , corps of engineers , dallas , tx , september 18 , 2001 .  dear mr .  green : thank you for your letter dated august 29 , 2001 , concerning the houston-galveston navigation channels , texas project .  i regret that members of my staff were not able to meet with you on september 12 , 2001 , to discuss this project in more detail .  based on conversations with your office and mr. william dawson of my staff , the following information will address your primary concern .  the u.s. army corps of engineers remains fully committed to completion of this project based on the optimal construction schedule .  i can further assure you that we will reprogram up to $ 20 million in construction funds as required to this project to ensure that this schedule is maintained irrespective of any shortfall in the fiscal year 2002 congressional appropriation .  i continue to appreciate your patience and willingness to work with us on this matter .  please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any further questions about the houston-galveston navigation channels project .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; david f. melcher , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; brigadier general , u.s. army commanding general .  & lt ; /em & gt ; congress of the united states , washington , dc , august 29 , 2001 .  dear general melcher : i am writing you today with my concerns about the fy 2002 army corps of engineers ( corps ) allocation for the houston-galveston navigation channel .  this project , funded by the corps at $ 28.785 million , realistically requires $ 46.8 million to keep it on an optimal construction schedule .  over the past several years , funding totaling at least $ 20 million has been reprogrammed from this project to other corps projects .  given the discrepancy between the fy 02 corps budget and the amount of funding required to keep this project on schedule , i am requesting that the corps return the full amount of reprogrammed money to this project in its fy 02 budget .  i have enclosed correspondence from the corps that my office received at the time when these funds were reprogrammed for your review .  i would also like to request a meeting with you in my washington , dc office , along with congressman chet edwards , during the second week in september to discuss this issue .  if you have any questions on this matter , please contact bob turney in my washington office at ( 202 ) 225-1688 .  thank you for your prompt attention to this request .  sincerely , gene green , department of the army , southwestern division , corps of engineers , dallas , tx , march 11 , 1999 .  dear congressman green : this letter is in response to your concerns regarding the proposed reprogramming of funds from the houston-galveston navigation channels , texas project .  i am aware of , and fully appreciate the importance of the houston-galveston navigation channels project to the economy of this region and the nation .  the corps of engineers , southwestern division , is fully committed to completion of the project based on the most optimal construction schedule .  i have made the recommendation to reprogram funds from this project only after being personally convinced that the project schedule can not be advanced beyond what has currently been scheduled to be accomplished this fiscal year .  based on this analysis , i have determined that these funds are truly excess to this year 's project needs .  the proposed reprogramming is to be a temporary reallocation of funds to maximize their use .  they will be restored to the project when they are required to ensure that we will maintain the optimal construction schedule .  i am providing an identical letter to the honorable chet edwards , honorable nick lampson , and the honorable ken bentsen .  thank you for your involvement in the development of the water resources infrastructure within the state of texas .  if i can be of assistance on any other matter , please feel free to contact me .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; edwin j. arnold , jr. , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; brigadier general , u.s. army commanding general & lt ; /em & gt ; congress of the united states , washington , dc , february 26 , 1999 .  dear mr .  loew : for two consecutive years , the congress appropriated sufficient funds in the energy and water development appropriations bill to permit the completion of the navigational features of the houston ship channel project in four years .  maintaining this optimal construction schedule is a priority for us because it will add an additional $ 281 million to the project 's return on investment and save taxpayers $ 63.5 million in increased escalation and investment costs .  we appreciate the efforts you have made to fully inform us about the need to reprogram $ 2.2 million to the giww-aransas national wildlife refuge project , as well as your understanding of our concerns .  in the spirit of cooperation , we and the houston port authority are willing to support the corps request to reprogram funds from the houston-galveston navigation project .  however , we would first ask to receive assurance in writing that the corps will reprogram other funds to the houston project to replace those lost .  further , our understanding is that funds will be reprogrammed back to the houston ship channel project by fy 2001 .  in addition , if the dredging project suddenly moves ahead of schedule , the corps must do everything possible to ensure that a delay does not occur .  we look forward to your prompt response .  sincerely , & lt ; center & gt ; gene green , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress .  & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; chet edwards , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress .  & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; ken bentsen , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress. & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; nick lampson , & lt ; /center & gt ; & lt ; center & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; member of congress. & lt ; /em & gt ; 