as i was saying before i was interrupted , and i appreciate the gentleman yielding , the point is that both sides , in the old rules , both sides could shut the process down .  the difference is , and it is a huge difference , the members would be hanging out there and with no resolution .  and the gentleman is incorrect and misrepresents the process .  the process starts with the ranking member and the chairman looking at the facts as presented to them by the person charging the member .  and then they decide whether to submit a recommendation to the full committee to proceed further and what action should be taken .  so the facts the gentleman is talking about start with the ranking member and the chairman .  then a recommendation is submitted , just like a da would submit a recommendation to a grand jury .  and this is the grand jury process , to the committee , and the committee makes a decision whether they go forward .  now , what happens in practice is , if that member that has been charged receives from the committee that they are moving towards an investigative subcommittee , that is a huge hit on that member , whether he is guilty or not .  the press run with it and all kinds of things happen , as the gentleman perfectly knows .  so that step to go to an investigative subcommittee is a very , very important step .  and that is why the speaker thought it was really important that a bipartisan vote be made in order to get to that step .  it starts with his own ranking member making a decision , in concert , one vote to one vote , with the chairman , whether to submit the recommendation to the committee to proceed .  and that is where the gentleman 's concerns can be taken care of as to whether it is going to be blocked one way or another .  then once they have made that recommendation , if they make a strong recommendation to proceed to an investigative subcommittee , i guarantee you , because you have a republican chairman and a democrat ranking member , the committee is going to follow their recommendation more times than not , and you will have a bipartisan , and in many cases , a unanimous vote to proceed to the next step .  the problem is , and it is a real problem that was used , where you come to a deadlock , then there is no resolution for the member that has been charged .  and the speaker felt very strongly that that undermines the rights of every member of this house .  