madam chairman , some folks will get a lot of mileage out of this bill , but it will not be the hard-working americans who have to pay more and more at the gas pump as a direct result of the policies of this bush administration .  when the same collection of fossil fuel dinosaurs and tax loophole lobbyists come here and order congress to `` fill 'er up , '' with special favors , they seldom go away on `` empty. '' national security demands a balanced energy policy that encourages more new energy technology and renewable alternatives .  but in this bill , security is sacrificed at the altar of whichever lobbyist had the biggest limousine .  our families ' health depends on clean air and water , but this collection of tax breaks , loopholes , handouts and waivers ensures only continued healthy profits for some of the worst polluters in the world .  and this bill is not just about more smoke in the air , it is about more smoke and mirrors .  take , for example , the synthetic fuel provision that i tried unsuccessfully to strike in the committee on ways and means ; it is really about tax dodging through synthetic accounting .  unscrupulous companies get what some estimate to be up to $ 4 billion a year by spraying starch on coal or pine tar on coal .  this does not add to the energy capability of the coal .  it does not cause the coal to burn in a less polluting manner .  its sole purpose is to generate significant tax dodging .  that is why enron was about to embark on this gimmick that so many companies have abused , and which this committee on ways and means refuses to end .  this energy bill is not just about over-reliance on fossil fuels .  it is about fossilized ideals .  it is about a lost opportunity for america to be the world 's leader in energy technology .  with our security at stake , when so much of the world 's oil is located in areas as inflammable above ground as the fuel they hold underground , with our families ' health dependent on not letting the quality of our air and our water deteriorate even further than it has under this administration , this energy bill is the latest example of spending today , while the future will be billed in dollars , safety and health .  that bill will be due and paid by our children and our grandchildren , like my new little ella .  