mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter )  for yielding me time and for her leadership .  mr. speaker , as the daughter of a veteran , i want to first express my profound respect for our brave men and women serving in iraq , but we are not helping these brave troops if we blindly sign yet another blank check for this unjust and unnecessary war in iraq .  this $ 82 billion supplemental would bring the total war spending to over $ 300 billion .  how can we sign off on another $ 82 billion check when the bush administration has failed to provide the proper accounting of where the taxpayer money is going ?  how can we sign off on this check when our own government reported yesterday that another $ 100 million can not be accounted for ?  this is on top of the $ 9 billion from last year that is still missing .  how can we sign this check if the bush administration has offered no plan to bring our troops home ?  furthermore , are we safer today than we were before this unnecessary war started ?  iraq is now a breeding ground for terrorists .  we are less safe as a result of this war .  members know and i know .  before the invasion of iraq , there was no connection between saddam hussein and osama bin laden .  still , this administration would have us also believe that adding the unrelated anti-immigrant provisions to this supplemental bill would make us safer , but the fact is real id will do nothing to make us safe .  this administration has much to account for .  they are cutting section 8 for our seniors and our poor .  they are cutting the budget for housing for people living with aids .  they are cutting housing for the disabled .  they are cutting medicaid .  when you look at $ 13.5 billion over the next 5 years for our veterans , they are cutting that .  they are making the least of these pay for this war .  that is wrong .  this is a whole new level of immorality that i have ever seen .  this distortion of the facts with regard to iraq and the fact that they told us that weapons of mass destruction were there , we know that is not the case .  we know that .  you know that .  yet another $ 82 billion to fund this war that has not made this country any safer .  it has made us less safe .  when you look at what is happening in our own country , when you look at health care , when you look at the people out there in the street that are suffering , why do they have to pay for this war ?  i ask for a no vote .  