mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  in closing , i would like to say that i believe we have had a good debate on the rule today .  i believe the importance and timeliness of this legislation could not be more self-evident .  this bill has been carefully crafted and worked in a way to ensure that our service men and women receive the best supplies and equipment when they go to war and that those supplies and equipment are replenished and replaced in a timely fashion .  finally , i would ask members to recall that this is a vote about our willingness to support our service men and women , not about other policy issues .  the men and women serving our cause in iraq ask for nothing more .  in good conscience , we should give them nothing less .  mr. speaker , i would urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying legislation .  the material previously referred to by ms. slaughter  is as follows : previous question for h. res. 258 -- rule on conference report for h.r. 1268 emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief act , 2005 strike all after the resolved clause and insert : `` that upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider the conference report to accompany the bill ( h.r. 1268 ) making emergency supplemental appropriations for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief , for the fiscal year ending september 30 , 2005 , and for other purposes .  all points of order against the conference report and against its consideration are waived .  the conference report shall be considered as read .  sec .  2. the chairman of the committee on the judiciary is authorized , on behalf of the committee , to file a supplemental report to accompany h.r. 748 .  sec .  3. ( a ) a concurrent resolution specified in subsection ( b ) is hereby adopted .  ( b ) the concurrent resolution referred to in subsection ( a ) is a concurrent resolution ( 1 ) which has no preamble ; ( 2 ) the title of which is as follows : `` providing for corrections to the enrollment of the conference report on the bill h.r. 1268 `` ; and ( 3 ) the text of which is as follows : at the end of the ( conference report ) bill add the following new title : sec .  1. there is hereby created a select committee on the model of the truman committee to investigate the awarding and carrying out of contracts to conduct activities in afghanistan and iraq and to fight the war on terrorism ( hereinafter referred to as the `` select committee '' ) .  sec .  2. the select committee is to be composed of 15 members of the house , to be appointed by the speaker ( of whom 7 shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the minority leader ) , one of whom shall be designated as chairman from the majority party and one of whom shall be designated ranking member from the minority party .  any vacancy occurring in the membership of the select committee shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made .  the select committee shall conduct an ongoing study and investigation of the awarding and carrying out of contracts by the government to conduct activities in afghanistan and iraq and to fight the war on terrorism and make such recommendations to the house as the select committee deems appropriate regarding the following matters : ( 1 ) bidding , contracting , and auditing standards in the issuance of government contracts ; ( 2 ) oversight procedures ; ( 3 ) forms of payment and safeguards against money laundering ; ( 4 ) accountability of contractors and government officials involved in procurement ; ( 5 ) penalties for violations of law and abuses in the awarding and carrying out of government contracts ; ( 6 ) subcontracting under large , comprehensive contracts ; ( 7 ) inclusion and utilization of small businesses , through subcontracts or otherwise ; and ( 8 ) such other matters as the select committee deems appropriate .  sec .  3. ( a ) quorum -- one-third of the members of the select committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business except for the reporting of the results of its study and investigation ( with its recommendations ) or the authorization of subpoenas , which shall require a majority of the committee to be actually present , except that the select committee may designate a lesser number , but not less than two , as a quorum for the purpose of holding hearings to take testimony and receive evidence .  ( b ) powers. -- for the purpose of carrying out this resolution , the select committee may sit and act during the present congress at any time and place within the united states or elsewhere , whether the house is in session , has recessed , or has adjourned and hold such hearings as it considers necessary and to require , by subpoena or otherwise , the attendance and testimony of such witnesses , the furnishing of information by interrogatory , and the production of such books , records , correspondence , memoranda , papers documents , and other things and information of any kind as it deems necessary , including relevant classified materials .  ( c ) issuance of subpoenas -- a subpoena may be authorized and issued by the select committee in the conduct of any investigation or series of investigations or activities , only when authorized by a majority of the members voting , a majority being present .  authorized subpoenas shall be signed by the chairman or by any member designated by the select committee , and may be served by any person designated by the chairman or such member .  subpoenas shall be issued under the seal of the house and attested by the clerk .  the select committee may request investigations , reports , and other assistance from any agency of the executive , legislative , and judicial branches of the government .  ( d ) meetings -- the chairman , or in his absence a member designated by the chairman , shall preside at all meetings and hearings of the select committee .  all meetings and hearings of the select committee shall be conducted in open session , unless a majority of members of the select committee voting , there being in attendance the requisite number required for the purpose of hearings to take testimony , vote to close a meeting or hearing .  ( e ) applicabilities of rules of the house -- the rules of the house of representatives applicable to standing committees shall govern the select committee where not inconsistent with this resolution .  ( f ) written committees rules -- the select committee shall adopt additional written rules , which shall be public , to govern its procedures , which shall not be inconsistent with this resolution or the rules of the house of representatives .  sec .  4. ( a ) appointment of staff -- the select committee staff shall be appointed , and may be removed , by the chairman and shall work under the general supervision and direction of the chairman .  ( b ) powers of ranking minority member -- all staff provided to the minority party members of the select committee shall be appointed , and may be removed , by the ranking minority member of the committee , and shall work under the general supervision and direction of such member .  ( c ) compensation -- the chairman shall fix the compensation of all staff of the select committee , after consultation with the ranking minority member regarding any minority party staff , within the budget approved for such purposes for the select committee .  ( d ) reimbursement of expenses -- the select committee may reimburse the members of its staff for travel , subsistence , and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of the their functions for the select committee .  ( e ) payment of expenses -- there shall be paid out of the applicable accounts of the house such sums as may be necessary for the expenses of the select committee .  such payments shall be made on vouchers signed by the chairman of the select committee and approved in the manner directed by the committee on house administration .  amounts made available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance with regulations prescribed by the committee on house administration .  sec .  5. the select committee shall from time to time report to the house the results of its study and investigation , with its recommendations .  any report made by the select committee when the house is not in session shall be filed with the clerk of the house .  any report made by the select committee shall be referred to the committee or committees that have jurisdiction over the subject matter of the report .  sec .  6. none of the unobligated or unexpended funds available for public affairs activities within the office of the secretary of defense under the heading `` operation and maintenance , defense-wide '' may be obligated or expanded until the requirements to transmit reports under section 9010 and 9012 of p.l .  108-287 are met .  