mr. speaker , today i rise in support of the rule for the emergency supplemental appropriations act and the underlying bill .  in addition to the needed funds to sustain military operations and reconstruction efforts in the middle east , this legislation contains two key provisions that i would like to highlight .  the first is language that ensures that funds in the bill will not be used to cancel the multiyear contract for c-130j procurement .  currently more than half the fleet of combat-ready c-130s is over 30 years old .  although their longevity is clearly a testament to the value of these critical aircraft , we should be very concerned that the c-130e and h models continue to age at alarming rates , putting our tactical airlift capability at risk in the near term .  in fact , several weeks ago , the air force announced that they are grounding much of the c-130e models because of severe fatigue in their wings , including a dozen that have been flying missions in and out of iraq and afghanistan .  mr. speaker , some of these planes were used in vietnam , and we are literally flying their wings off in the middle east .  the air force has long anticipated the aging of the older models , which only makes it more remarkable that the multiyear contract to replace these planes has been carved out of the 2006 budget .  mr. speaker , because of the growing problem that the air force faces in its tactical airlift program , i support the c-130j language , and i would like to express my sincere thanks to the appropriations chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis )  , and the conferees for retaining this language .  mr. speaker , i would also like to thank the conferees for protecting the real id provisions of h.r. 1268 .  as our rules committee chairman , the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier )  , just mentioned , this would establish and rapidly implement voluntarily regulations for state driver 's licenses and identification document security standards .  it would increase the burden of proof of claiming asylum .  it would synchronize terrorism-related grounds for inadmissibility and removal , and also facilitate the completion of the san diego border fence .  these provisions were recommended by the 9/11 commission , bipartisan , 10 members ; and they are important for securing our borders from illegal entry and possible terrorist activity .  our immigration laws are in need of reform , and i believe these provisions are a positive step in the right direction .  so i urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying bill .  