mr. speaker , i would like to clarify my opposition to h. j. res. 27 , a resolution to withdraw u.s. approval of the uruguay round agreement act establishing the world trade organization ( wto ) .  although i oppose the resolution , i am glad we are having this debate today .  the 1994 law that helped create the wto included an important provision that allows congress to reassess u.s. participation in the organization every five years .  the constantly shifting global trade landscape makes regular congressional review of u.s. participation in the wto especially critical .  like many of my constituents , i am concerned about investment and jobs moving to other countries that have weaker labor and environmental standards .  i am also concerned about the growing u.s. trade deficit , wto pressure to downgrade our consumer protections , and challenges to our federal laws posed by the wto 's closed dispute resolution tribunals .  but retaining u.s. participation in the wto does n't mean we ca n't or should n't work to improve global trading system .  the objective should be to mend it , not end it .  the wto is the only international organization dealing with the global rules of trade between nations .  over 90 percent of all world trade is conducted within the wto .  withdrawal from the wto would isolate the u.s. from the international economy .  it would also eliminate the best recourse american businesses and workers have when faced with unfair trade barriers : dispute resolution .  if we were to withdraw from the wto , other countries could impose unfair tariffs or other barriers to american goods , or `` dump '' goods , and we could only retaliate in return and risk getting into a potentially dangerous trade war .  if we want to grow and expand our economic opportunities , we must engage with the rest of the world .  i believe that abandoning a rules-based trade system would be detrimental to american families , workers , business , and national security .  we need to do all we can to ensure americans benefit from the global economy .  but shutting our doors on the wto is n't the answer .  