mr. speaker , i rise in thoughtful support for h. j. res. 27 , and i say thoughtful because i believe we should take a good look at what we are doing and what has been proposed and try to figure out what is going to happen in the future , and what are the ideas that these decisions are based upon .  we are living in a time when a significant number of americans are rushing forward to support any effort to transfer sovereignty from elected officials in the united states to unelected officials elsewhere at a global level who will exercise power and control , mandate policies and shape our lives ; yet they are not elected by the people of the united states of america , as if we should expect them in the wto or even the united nations to watch out for our interests .  mr. speaker , it is our job to watch out for the interests of the american people .  we are elected to do so .  transferring our sovereignty and decisionmaking power to the wto , to the united nations , or any other international body is not in the long-term interests of our people .  the united states did this back in the 1950s or 1940s with the united nations , and it too was a dream , a dream for a better world , a new order that would bring about prosperity and peace .  what do we see now in the united nations , corruption at the highest levels and arrogance .  we see united nations peacekeeping troops stand by as people are massacred .  they themselves have participated in atrocities , and yet we see cover-up at the united nations and corruption .  is that the type of people we want to give sovereignty to ?  no .  so why do we think the wto is going to be any different ?  the wto is made up of nondemocratic countries as well as democratic countries , just like the united nations .  we are not going to bring them up ; they will bring us down if we give up our decision-making process to unelected bodies that have been set up .  they call it the new world order .  the new world order , what is that going to bring the american people ?  a loss of sovereignty , a loss of our ability to control our own destinies .  we will see the wto manipulated by special interests in the same way we have seen other bodies manipulated by special interests , but the wto will be made up of organizations that are comprised of governments that do not believe in democracy and honesty and free press and free speech and the standards we believe in .  mr. speaker , 10 years from now as the wto evolves , and even today , we will find our huge international corporations and international corporations in general going to these bodies and manipulating them and bribing them .  and why not accept the bribes ?  the people of burma or china or these other countries who are not democratic , who are not honest , that is their way of life .  so why are we transferring authority , putting our faith in an organization , even if today in the short run we can see some examples where it might be in our benefit ?  in the long run it is not to the benefit of the american people to give up this kind of decisionmaking .  if we want more trade in the world , we should establish bilateral trade agreements with other democratic countries .  that way we can control the decision-making process .  the major economic countries of the world will enter into those agreements .  i say we should have free trade between free people .  we should not be establishing superpowerful , unelected bodies by the wto to control our destiny in the united states and determine what economic policies we will have in the long run .  these things make no sense to me , and it is a great threat looming over us .  whatever examples can be given today of some good things that are happening , just remember what will happen 10 years down the road once these panels and bodies have been corrupted by the vicious dictatorships that we have let into the wto .  