mr. speaker , i rise today to express my concerns about h. res. 27 .  h. res. 27 would withdrawal the united states from participation in the world trade organization .  i did not support a similar resolution five years ago , and i do not support this resolution today , international trade is not just inevitable , it is a good thing .  we live in a world today where more people can afford ever cheaper goods .  but lowering the cost of goods and increasing their availability is not the single goal of trade .  trade done right helps lift the global standard of living and works to protect the irreplaceable environment we inherited .  trade is about values .  i want to make sure the united states not only exports our-world class agriculture , but also our respect for the natural environment and enforceable labor laws .  we should make sure we export the goods we produce and not the workers who produce them .  that is why we must use the wto to address these labor and environmental concerns .  but if we walk away from the wto , we wo n't be able to address any of these issues , where else can we give voice to issues of child labor or environmentally destructive practices of some industries ?  the wto -- imperfect as it may be -- is the forum that we , along with the other members of the international community , established to enforce trade rules and more importantly allow for an open dialogue on the trade issues that concern us .  we need to realize that even if there are legitimate problems with the wto , and i agree that some exist , the solution is not to unilaterally withdraw from the wto .  withdrawing from the wto would not help to solve any of these problems .  not one .  we can not stop trade , and we can not end the global economy .  what we can do is work within the world trade organization to address these concerns .  we should not allow any others to dictate to us about what is in our national interest , but we must recognize that we can not accomplish our national goals in isolation from the rest of the world .  we can only work to protect american workers from anticompetitive practices of foreign countries from within the wto , not by sitting on the sidelines .  we should be working with our trade partners and with the wto to enforce our existing trade rules .  i urge my colleagues to vote against this resolution .  