mr. chairman , although i believe in the values and principles expressed in the united nations charter , the organization has been hijacked by some member states who have betrayed those values .  the use of blood libels by representatives of member states in official u.n .  reports and by ngos is unacceptable .  it is time to do more to press the u.n .  to reform .  it is not enough to criticize the u.n .  and to denounce its institutional anti-semitism .  slandering the jewish people , their aspirations for self-determination , and their homeland is unacceptable .  excluding israel , a member state , from the community of nations because of ancient hatreds and slanders is unworthy of an organization founded to promote world peace and end human suffering .  no other nation would be denounced for taking steps to protect its citizens from acts of terror aimed intentionally at civilians .  no nation has exercised as much restraint as israel , yet no nation has been subjected to so much condemnation , indeed vilification and demonization , including those countries that practice slavery , torture , and genocide , some of whom have been privileged to sit on the united nations commission on human rights , a right denied to israel in the more than half a century it has been a member .  the u.n .  is capable of good and important work in the eradication of disease , in alleviating poverty , in averting genocide , in peacekeeping .  it can and should do more , but it can never live up to its potential and its mission unless it sheds the stain of anti-semitism .  for these reasons , the united nations critically needs to be reformed .  yet , some commands for change , including several provisions in the hyde bill , are counterproductive and unwise .  specifically i can not support the hyde bill provision that mandates cutting in half u.s. payments to the u.n .  unless the u.n .  adopts 39 specific reforms , many of which can not conceivably be adopted because they require unanimous consent from all 191 member states , including syria , iran , and north korea .  the hyde bill would halt funding for peacekeeping missions , endangering vital new or expanded u.n .  operations in darfur and haiti , and ignoring the possibility of future crises that may demand international intervention is such places as iran or syria .  the lantos substitute recommends reforms that will make the u.n .  more fair and effective , but it avoids the rigid and draconian approach that makes the hyde bill both unreasonable and potentially dangerous , so i urge adoption of the lantos substitute .  mr. chairman , although i believe in the values and principles expressed in the united nations charter , the organization has been hijacked by some member states who have betrayed these values .  the use of blood libels by representatives of member states , in official u.n .  reports , and by ngos , is unacceptable and clearly evidence that the united nations needs to be reformed .  i believe it is time for the united states to do more to press the u.n .  to reform .  it is not enough to criticize the u.n .  it is not enough to denounce the u.n. 's institutional anti-semitism .  slandering the jewish people , their aspirations for self-determination , and their homeland , is unacceptable .  excluding israel , a member state , from the community of nations because of ancient hatreds and slanders is unworthy of an organization founded to promote world peace and end human suffering .  no other nation would be denounced for taking steps to protect its citizens from acts of terror aimed intentionally at civilians .  no nation has exercised as much restraint as israel , yet no nation has been subjected to so much condemnation , indeed vilification and demonization , including those countries that practice slavery , torture , and genocide , some of whom have been privileged to sit on the united nations commission on human rights -- a right denied to israel in the more than half-century it has been a member .  the u.n .  is capable of good and important work , in the eradication of disease , in alleviating poverty , in averting genocide , in peacekeeping .  it can and should do more , but it can never live up to its potential and its mission unless it sheds the stain of anti-semitism .  for these reasons , the united nations critically needs to be reformed .  yet , some demands for change -- including several provisions in the hyde bill -- are counterproductive and unwise .  specifically , i can not support the hyde bill provision that mandates cutting in half united states payments to the u.n .  unless the u.n .  adopts 38 specific reforms -- many of which can not conceivably be adopted because they require unanimous consent from all 191 memberstates , including syria , iran , and north korea .  the hyde bill would also halt funding for peacekeeping missions , endangering vital new or expanded u.n .  operations in darfur and haiti , and ignoring the possibility of future crises that may demand international intervention in such places as iran or syria .  the democratic substitute , offered by my colleague and good friend from california mr. lantos , which authorizes the secretary of state to use her discretion in withholding funds to promote adoption of the reforms we seek , is far preferable .  the lantos substitute recommend reforms that will make the u.n .  more fair and effective , but it avoids the rigid , draconian , automatic approach that makes the hyde bill both unreasonable and dangerous .  