mr. chairman , i rise in support of the lantos substitute .  mr. chairman , i rise to speak in support of the substitute legislation offered by the ranking member of the house international relations committee , mr. tom lantos .  as a former u.s. ambassador , i know and appreciate that the united nations serves a most useful purpose .  it is the only international body that allows those countries that support the united states and those that do not to sit down in peaceful dialogue to address issues of concern and to work together .  to maintain the opportunity to resolve our differences , we must not cut the funds we provide to the united nations .  mr. lantos ' bill supports the necessary reforms we all recognize are needed for the united nations but does so without malice .  like h.r. 2745 , the substitute supports the goal of reforming budgeting procedures , but it eliminates the devastating automatic withholding of 50 percent of the dues we owe to the united nations .  we should not tie the hands of our secretary of state nor should we give those who do not support the united states , an issue in which to embarrass us .  the substitute gives the secretary of state the authority to make the cut but does not mandate such cuts .  a more preferable position .  the substitute also keeps the peacekeeping reforms of h.r. 2745 but does not mandate the vetoing of any new or expanded u.n .  peacekeeping operation that does not serve our national interest .  again , the flexibility contained in the substitute is preferable to h.r. 2745 .  mr. chairman , the united states is the world leader and we should be a leader in all areas including serving as a model country in its relationships to the world community .  this means pushing for reforms in the united nations when such reforms are necessary but it also means being a good citizen and doing our part to fulfill our responsibilities and to be a good world citizen .  mr. chairman , i urge support for the lantos substitute .  