i thank the gentleman from utah ( mr. bishop )  for yielding me the time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of the rule and the bill .  i also want to thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  for his service and this bill .  i had some prepared remarks , but i have got to respond to the last speaker who talked about cedaw .  it seems to me that that is a perfect example of what is wrong with the united nations and our funding the united nations .  what a joke cedaw is .  we are the only industrialized country that has not signed that treaty .  women do better here than anyplace in the world .  there is no person who supports equal rights for women more than i do , and i think that cedaw is a joke because of those who have supported it , look at how they treat women .  as members of congress , we have a duty to ensure accountability of each and every american taxpayer dollar that goes to the united nations .  from the u.n .  oil-for-food program , to its lack of action with respect to the genocide in darfur , to the horrendous human rights abuses by u.n .  peacekeeping staff during their mission in the congo , what did they care about cedaw .  the u.n .  is rife with fraud and abuse and needs reform .  two of the most important items this bill requires are to direct the u.s. permanent representative to aggressively pursue a definition of terrorism and to mandate that the u.n .  adopt criteria for membership on any human rights body .  the u.n .  counts some of the world 's leading human rights violators and state sponsors of terrorism among its membership and even taps many of them to be in leadership positions on its subcommittees .  this is outrageous and ironic .  let us empower our new ambassador to the u.n .  and the administration with reforms that have some teeth and will effect change .  the united nations ' reputation of being a credible and effective international peacekeeping body has been tarnished .  it is no wonder so many americans question the efficacy and the very necessity of the united nations .  mr. speaker , i rise today in support of this rule and bill and thank mr. hyde  for his service and this bill .  the united nations charter includes some very laudable goals , but when the rubber meets the road , the u.n .  has failed miserably to put these ideals into practice , especially in recent years .  as a founding member of the u.n .  and a permanent member of the u.n .  security council , we have a duty to insist on a higher standard .  and as members of congress , we have a duty to ensure accountability of each and every american taxpayer dollar that goes to the u.n .  from the u.n .  oil for food program to its lack of action with respect to the genocide in darfur , sudan to the horrendous human rights abuses by u.n .  peacekeeping staff during their mission in the congo , the u.n .  is rife with fraud and abuse and needs reform .  this bill includes a call for certifiable reforms including : shifting 18 programs from the regular assessed budget to voluntary funded programs so their funding would not be automatic ; all new programs started by the u.n .  to include sunsetting provisions ; cuts and streamlining in the funding for the 15 , 484 conferences and scheduled meetings that occurred in 2004 and 2005 , some of which cost $ 7-8 , 000 per hour ; creation of an ethics office to provide oversight over the u.n .  budget and financial disclosure form .  and two of the most important items this bill requires are to direct the u.s. permanent representative to aggressively pursue a definition of terrorism and to mandate that the u.n .  adopt criteria for membership on any human rights body .  the u.n .  counts some of the world 's leading human rights violators and state sponsors of terrorism among its membership and even taps many of them to be in leadership positions on its subcommittees .  this is completely outrageous and dangerously ironic .  let us empower our new ambassador to the u.n .  and the administration with reforms that have some teeth and will effect change .  the united nations ' reputation of being a credible and effective , international peacekeeping body has been sorely tarnished .  it is no wonder so many americans question the efficacy and the very necessity of the united nations .  