mr. chairman , i rise to commend the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  and the members of the committee on international relations for their work in bringing this legislation to the floor today .  i want to express my gratitude to the gentleman from illinois ( chairman hyde ) and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey i want to also give commendation of thanks to the staff , the majority and minority staff .  they have been very good , and i want to personally thank them .  this bipartisan , bicameral legislation reaffirms that the promotion of democracy , freedom , and fundamental rights constitutes an essential element of u.s. foreign policy .  it strengthens the ability of the state department to promote democracy with respect particularly to nondemocratic countries .  through the cooperation and work of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , much of that legislation has been included in the state department authorization bill .  with these provisions , we are ensuring that the democratic principles that are the foundation of america are intentionally and purposely promoted worldwide .  this legislation makes critical structural changes at the state department that reflect our nation 's commitment to the spread of democracy .  additionally , it increases the number of foreign service officers assigned to the bureau of democracy , human rights , and labor and creates two regional democracy hubs .  the secretary of state is also directed to prepare an annual report on democracy which will designate countries as `` nondemocratic '' or `` democratic transition countries. '' there is so much else in this bill , but before i run out of time , i want to thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  again and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos )  and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. smith )  , and i want to give my special thanks to the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  not just for his work on this legislation and for his support for our advance democracy effort , but i want to thank him for his dedication to preserving freedom and protecting the innocent throughout his many years in public service .  mr. chairman , i can remember being on the floor late at night during the situation with regard to the contras down in nicaragua and following the leadership of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde )  on all of these issues .  he has been the voice and conscience of this house for years and years .  i want him to know that i personally have followed him on many of these issues .  i have listened and asked , what is henry hyde saying ?  how is henry hyde voting ?  it has been an honor and a privilege to serve with you .  