mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentlewoman 's courtesy in permitting me to speak on this bill .  there are a number of things in here that i have no objection to , that i think we should do in terms of preserving our national security .  but what is striking about h. res. 344 is that it basically misses the point .  it is inadequate .  it talks about only a little bit of the equation .  the problem that we have now is first , we have a reckless fiscal policy in this country aided and abetted by this congress .  we are as addicted to the chinese loans , to their credit to us , as we are to saudi oil .  nothing in this resolution talks about getting our fiscal house in order .  what would happen if instead of using their money that we have given them to purchase this oil company , what if they purchased something in another area or if they start dumping our bonds .  what would happen to interest rates and the problems in this country ?  it is also interesting that the resolution talks about the chinese oil supply being stagnant in terms of their domestic production .  our supply in the u.s. is not just stagnant ; it is going down .  even if you suck the entire oil supply out of the arctic wildlife refuge and threaten our offshore areas with drilling , we are still in decline .  this resolution does not talk about energy independence for the united states .  in fact , the republican majority 's energy bill , according to the department of energy , is going to increase our dependence on foreign imported oil by 75 percent .  interesting .  we have gone from a one-third in the 70s , 56 percent imported today , it will be 68 percent in 2025 ; yet the best that my friends in the majority can do is bash china a little bit and not do anything about our oil addiction , not do anything about diversifying our sources of energy , not do anything about the reckless fiscal policy that puts us at their mercy .  as my colleague from virginia pointed out , 44 percent of our debt is foreign owned , an increasing percentage from china .  our addiction to things from wal-mart means that it is going to be more the case in the future .  what are the chinese doing ?  they are diversifying their supply .  they are taking some of the money we have given them to invest .  they are increasing the energy efficiency of their cars , something that , sadly , the republican energy bill does not allow in any meaningful way .  i would suggest , ladies and gentlemen , that you can examine the national security implications of dual-use technology .  that is fine .  but what really has us at risk is that we are addicted to imported oil , wasting energy and a reckless fiscal policy .  this resolution is completely beside the point on these critcial factors .  