mr. speaker i yield myself such time as i may consume .  mr. speaker , i always enjoy following my friend , the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. andrews )  .  i love to hear his debate , and i respect it .  but i just think he is wrong about this .  we are not chilling anybody .  what we are telling osha is you be darn careful before you drag people into court or force them to pay the citation because they simply can not go to court .  they can take anybody to court anytime they want to under this bill .  but they better be right more often than they are wrong , and that is not necessarily the case .  so many of the cases we never hear about because the poor small business owner simply has to pay the citation because he knows that the attorneys ' fees are going to be 10 times more than the citation .  in hearings before my subcommittee in the last congress , we heard testimony from several witnesses about settling citations with osha rather than contesting citations , even though the employer felt the citation was dead wrong .  why is this a continuing theme ?  i do not even have to be in congress to hear this .  i know about this kind of thing going on in my area all of the time .  i would argue that since it is too hard to challenge osha and its attorneys , and the fact that you are challenging the entire taxpayers of the country and the use of their dollars , an employer simply can not afford to go to court to prove that they are right because of the cost .  does this remind any of you that have been in business about hearing from any of your friends with the irs ?  they do the same thing .  they just beat you to death and make you pay whatever they want you to pay and you can not go to court to defend yourself .  the occupational safety and health small employer access to justice act , would award attorneys ' fees to small businesses that successfully challenge an osha citation .  they need to know what they are doing before they drag people into court .  they need to be right .  they will not be every time .  it may cost them sometimes .  but that is better than not ever allowing a small businessman to be able to defend himself in court .  the legislation defines a small business as one with 100 employees or less and with a net worth of not more than $ 7 million .  this is a very limited definition .  this very limited definition will award attorneys ' fees to the very small employer who is often pressured into settling with osha despite the fact that the company believes it has done nothing wrong .  this legislation is needed because the equal access to justice act has not been effective in redressing unfair citations for small business owners .  some people think that is not true .  we think it is true .  the numbers of cases filed under eaja are few and far between .  why ?  because osha can easily claim that the citations were justified .  under eaja this is all they need to do .  in fiscal year 2004 , small businesses were awarded only $ 11 , 585 by oshrc .  witnesses before the committee on education and the workforce have described the economic calculus small businesses make where settling osha cases is concerned .  what was the common theme ?  it is cheaper to settle with osha than it is to fight , win and file for attorneys fees .  that is wrong .  occasionally , some businessmen can not stand it .  they just can not stand what osha is doing to them , and they are willing to pay a lot of money to go to court , a lot more money than the citation to prove that they were not wrong .  but not everybody can do that .  mr. speaker , my bill is simply not a new concept .  i would like to point out that in 180 other areas congress has provided fee-shifting statutory arrangements for attorneys fees .  this includes the fair labor standards act , the americans with disabilities act , and numerous other laws .  h.r. 742 simply levels the playing field for small employers by encouraging osha to better assess the merits of the case before bringing the full force and power of the united states government in their litigation against a small business .  if you think that is not scary , you ought to try it some time .  this measure passed the house , thank goodness , last year in the congress with bipartisan support , 223 to 194 .  i urge my colleagues , in particular my democratic friends who have small businesses in their district , i urge them to vote for all four of these bills .  i know it has been hard to tell what we have been talking about today because there has been so much superfluous conversation going on not concerning these four bills .  but these are four simple , commonsense , fair bills that small business in this country need .  mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time .  mr. chairman , how much time remains ?  