mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 740 and the three other osha bills under consideration today .  republicans are suggesting that our laws are hurting american jobs and productivity .  how can that be so when we continue even now to push for cafta that would outsource additional jobs outside of this area , not to mention many of the other jobs that we have lost ?  it is untrue .  it is bad enough that millions of americans are being shipped overseas .  we can not afford to lose any more jobs .  we have got to keep them here in the united states .  now the republicans want to weaken the protection that exists for our nation 's workers , our nation 's workers , working families and others who deserve the right .  last year , republicans passed fcc and eti , a bill that gave tax breaks to companies that moved to china and india , and i state that , moved to china and india .  half the time the consumers do not know who they are talking to when they pick up the phone because they are from some other company .  republicans need to stop confusing people on the reason why jobs are leaving the mainstream and are being sent to mainland china .  we should put the blame for losses in california and across the country where it belongs , and i state where it belongs .  they failed , the policies of this administration , the president 's so called compassionate conservatism has cost us 3 million jobs , and i state , 3 million jobs .  that is american jobs that we could put on working families .  please end this compassion .  remember that it was the president bush 's top economic advisors who claimed that sending american jobs overseas is a good thing .  well , we know it is not a good thing to american workers here and what it does to them .  weakening american labor standards and allowing american workers to be exploited as they are in third world countries is not the solution .  that type of thinking would put boys and girls out of the classroom and into the coal mines ?  these four bills are anti-worker , and i state , anti-worker , anti-safety , and they weaken the health and safety laws .  and they hurt the american workers and working families .  h.r. 739 weakens enforcement of the health and safety legislation by dragging out the debate for imposing penalties .  h.r. 740 weakens worker protection by packing commissions with partisan appointees who agree with the president 's anti-workers agenda , and i state , partisan appointees who agree with the president 's anti-workers agenda .  h.r. 741 encouraged frivolous challenges to labor law rules and interpretation .  h.r. 742 requires osha to pay attorneys fees for employers that win cases against osha .  however , these companies do not pay osha when they lose .  therefore , employers have nothing to lose by challenging those violations in court .  the real losers under this legislation are the american taxpayers , american workers , american families in this country , american people who work to make our country great .  as you can see , all four bills are antiworker laws , and the only way to justify them is to trump up charges that worker protection laws are costing american jobs and hurting american productivity .  that is not true , because it is american families , american workers who have made this country great .  we need to keep them here , and we need to protect them here in the united states .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to oppose all four of these anti-osha bills .  mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 740 and the other three osha bills under consideration today .  republicans are suggesting that our laws are hurting american jobs and productivity .  this is untrue .  it 's bad enough that millions of american jobs are being shipped overseas .  now republicans want to weaken the few protections that exist for our nation 's workers .  last year , republicans passed the fsc/eti bill that gave tax breaks to companies that move to china or india .  republicans need to stop confusing people on the reasons why jobs are leaving main street and being sent to mainland china .  we should put the blame for job losses in california and across the country where it belongs : the failed policies of this administration .  the president 's so-called compassionate conservatism has cost us 3 million jobs .  please end the compassion !  remember that it was president bush 's top economic advisor who claimed that sending american jobs overseas is a good thing .  weakening america 's labor standards and allowing workers here to be exploited as they are in third world countries is not the solution .  that type of thinking would take boys and girls out of the classroom and into the coal mine .  these four bills are anti-worker and anti-safety .  they weaken health and safety laws and hurt american workers .  h.r. 739 weakens enforcement of health and safety regulations by dragging out the date for imposing penalties .  h.r. 740 weakens worker protections by packing the commission with partisan appointees who agree with the president 's anti-worker agenda .  h.r. 741 will encourage frivolous challenges to labor department rules and interpretations .  and , h.r. 742 requires osha to pay attorney fees for employers that win cases against osha .  however , those companies do not pay osha when they lose .  therefore , employers have nothing to lose by challenging most violations in court .  the real losers under this legislation are american taxpayers and american workers .  as you can see , all four bills are anti-worker laws .  the only way to justify them is to trump up charges that worker protection laws that are costing american jobs and hurting american productivity .  mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to oppose all four of the anti-osha bills .  