mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  i do wish my friend , the gentleman from new york ( mr. owens )  , would get the afl-cio to send him talking points just on this bill .  that is what we have this hour for , to discuss this one bill , where we actually are trying to make osha work .  now , i will go over it again .  this is about an agency called osha that has a review commission made up of three people .  this review commission was written into the law in 1970 , written into the law by a democrat house and senate that simply said osha did not get to be the judge and jury .  they do have the right to set the standards .  they can write the regulations and enforce the regulations , but they are not to be the final judge and jury .  oshrc is .  the review commission is .  now , what we find is the commission is not working .  it does seem to me that some people do not want it to work .  i am not sure i know why , but to stay with a bill that is 34 years old and just like it is , thinking it is perfect , when we absolutely know that it is not .  for more than two-thirds of its existence , this commission has been paralyzed by frequent vacancies and often been unable to act .  two-thirds of the time in 34 years this commission has been unable to act .  for more than half of its existence , it has had two or fewer members .  for 20 percent of that time it lacked even a quorum of two .  now , why does the afl-cio or the labor bosses not want this to change ?  i do not know , but you misread it if you say working families do not want this kind of change .  because most working families in this country are in small business .  and tell you the truth , many labor union members also have small businesses with their wives and sometimes themselves as a second job .  you take it on yourself to tell us what the majority party wants .  well , this is simple what we want in this bill : we want a review commission at osha that works .  it is just that simple .  we do not want any more or any less .  that is all this bill is about .  we believe having five commissioners will help aid that process .  mr. speaker , i urge all our members to just simply come to the floor and remember what this is about .  this is a small tweak in a 34-year-old bill that is not working , and it does not help anybody .  it does not help workers , and it does not help employers to not pass this little thing to help this agency work .  