i thank the gentleman for yielding time .  mr. speaker , let us understand something fundamental here .  people do not just want the appearance of health insurance .  they want a program that they can trust and that will pay when they incur the claim , and that is the critical problem with the bill being put before us .  there are no meaningful consumer safeguards .  this can manifest itself in three critical ways .  first , as to content .  we all know about insurance loopholes , the fine print that says , oh , we will pay your claim unless you file a claim , in which case we wo n't pay the claim .  this kind of malarkey has been with us ever since insurance first came in the marketplace .  insurance commissioners make certain that the policy does what it purports to do , no fine print taking away the meaningful coverage .  this bill takes away that insurance commissioner protection provided to the consumers .  the second protection , rating .  do you know that in our states , there was a company that tried to sell a policy that actually raised the premium whenever you went to see a doctor ?  you thought you had good health care coverage , you went to see a doctor , your premium went up until it quickly became unaffordable .  that is no insurance coverage .  there is not the kind of protection on this kind of terrible rating scheme in this plan .  as an insurance commissioner , i have seen rating schemes .  do not think for a second there are not people that will try this under this legislation .  consumers need protection there .  thirdly , solvency .  if there is one part of this bill that i think just screams out , `` this is stupid , '' it is the part on solvency .  there is a $ 2 million cap on the solvency required for an ahp , no matter how many lives you have .  millions and millions of lives , $ 2 million maximum coverage .  do you know that the claims incurred by two premature babies could totally bust this plan ?  again , people want coverage that is there when they need it , not coverage that gives them the appearance of having something only to have it go bust because it did not have enough capitalization .  this business of capping solvency stands in stark contrast to any actuarial approach and shows that this is absolute danger for our consumers .  reject this bill .  