mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  earlier this month , the los angeles times ran a story that i think cuts to the heart of this discussion .  it is the story of a husband and wife living in southern california .  after successfully battling bone cancer 7 years earlier , doug did what so many americans would like to do .  he started a small business making boat parts .  soon , he was approached by an ahp offering a $ 400-a-month health insurance policy which even included special cancer coverage .  tragically , a few months after he purchased the policy , his cancer returned and it became quite clear that the quality of that association plan was not what doug or his wife , dana , expected .  it turned out that this particular plan covered less than 18 percent of doug 's $ 550 , 000 treatment cost .  doug and dana rapidly found themselves buried under hundreds of thousands of dollars in bills .  and as his wife recounted to the los angeles times , at several points before the cancer ultimately claimed his life , doug begged her to divorce him so that she would not be responsible for his debt .  i can not believe this is the solution we are offering to small business owners like doug and dana .  the american people deserve better .  mr. speaker , this bill offers no health care solutions for small business owners .  it raises premiums on 80 percent of small businesses ; will increase the number of uninsured by 1 million people ; and reduce coverage for another 7 million individuals who are most in need of care .  my friends on the other side might find these facts inconvenient , but that does not make them less true .  and it will accomplish all of this by loosening or removing consumer protections and by walking away from state mandates that guarantee treatment for diabetes and screenings for breast cancer .  we can do much , much better than this for america , mr. speaker .  i urge members to oppose the rule , oppose the underlying bill , and support the kind-andrews substitute .  