i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of h. res. 379 and the underlying bill , h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 .  my good friend , the gentleman from new jersey , just spoke about some mandates regarding ob care and , of course , there are mandates that have been passed in the several states , all 50 , in fact , that are very compassionate sounding .  the gentleman from new jersey is right .  many of us have , as former members of state legislatures , voted for mandates .  i am one of them .  in fact , in the state of georgia , there was a mandate , because of managed care intrusion and the requirement that everybody go through a gatekeeper and not to a specialist , that women in the state of georgia , if any health insurance policy was written , they would have direct access to their ob-gyn .  certainly , as an ob-gyn specialist , i liked that mandate .  in fact , i think i voted for that one .  but shortly after that along came the dermatologists and they wanted direct access to everybody who had an itch , to have to be able to go , demand to be seen by a specialist , a dermatologist , rather than their family practitioner .  i want to tell you about a couple of other mandates in the state of georgia .  there was one to require that every woman would have the right to have a blood test to be screened for ovarian cancer .  it is called cea-125 .  any cancer specialist would tell you that that screening test for ovarian cancer is absolutely worthless .  a better mandate would have been to say that anybody over age 30 , any woman , could have an ultrasound done every 6 months to look at the ovaries , but that would be astronomically expensive .  another mandate in the state of georgia says that every baby born in a hospital in the state of georgia has to be screened for sickle cell anemia , even when they are a part of an ethnic group where the percentage of sickle cell anemia is zero .  nada .  these mandates just go and on , and you have got them in all 50 states .  clearly , we need to do something about that because they are driving up the cost of health care .  we need to give people the opportunity to join their other employees in trade associations .  this is a good bill .  it will reduce the rolls of the uninsured by 8 million people .  i commend it to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle .  i urge you to support this rule and pass the sam johnson legislation .  it is a good bill .  it will get people the protection they need and provide health care for so many who do not have it .  