mr. chairman , i thank my friend from virginia very much for the time .  mr. chairman , i rise today in strong support of h.r. 3132 , the children 's safety act of 2005 .  i am proud to have been an original cosponsor of this legislation , and i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner )  for incorporating a piece of legislation that the gentleman from florida ( mr. foley )  and i proposed last year , the sex offenders registration and notification act .  the gentleman from florida ( mr. foley )  and i stood with john walsh , with ernie allen , with the center for missing and exploited children , representatives of the boys and girls club as well , and parents of children who have been killed by sex offenders .  this children 's safety act of 2005 does , in fact , close the gaps .  it tightens the ability to track down where convicted sex offenders are living and to improve the ways we notify our neighborhoods and our school districts when convicted sex offenders choose to live in our community .  i am pleased that the gentleman from florida 's ( mr. foley )  legislation and my legislation was effectively included in title i of the bill we are considering today .  when watching the news for the past 2 years , it is sickening to see of how many communities , how many neighborhoods , how many parents are terrorized because sex offenders are back in their neighborhoods .  i know from being a district attorney that our states have done a lot to correct the gaps , but more needs to be done .  as a father , i do not want to see a child of mine victimized in that way , and i want to put myself in the shoes of those parents who had to experience this dreadful victimization .  we must support this legislation today because the children 's safety act will increase and tighten supervision of those sex offenders and will enhance uniform notification standards for tracking sex offenders .  i strongly believe that this comprehensive bill finally will give law enforcement officers the tools and resources they need to track these criminals and to protect our children and families .  mr. chairman , i strongly urge my colleagues to adopt the children 's safety act .  