madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , before i yield time to my friend from pasco , i would just like to say over the last 24 hours i have been hearing about this abc/washington post poll to which my friend from rochester has regularly referred , and i have actually taken the opportunity to look closely at the poll itself .  we all know that when one looks at a public opinion poll , it depends on how the question is asked .  we continue to hear that 76 percent of the american people support an independent commission and they do not want congress to take this action .  actually , i looked at the poll itself , and i would like to enlighten my friend from rochester , if i might .  question no .  19 says : `` the republican leaders of congress have called for a full-scale congressional investigation of the government 's hurricane preparedness and response effort .  apart from this investigation , would you support or oppose an investigation by an independent commission like the one that investigated the 9/11 attacks ?  `` seventy-six percent support that .  well , of course .  who would not support that ?  who would not be supportive of that notion ?  but we continue that somehow the american people oppose having congress do its job and they only want this independent commission of unelected people to do their job .  then one has to look at question no .  18 just before that .  and i hesitate to raise this , but the fact that this public opinion poll has been continually utilized as the bible when it comes to consideration of our legislative proposal here , question no .  18 says : `` do you think democrats who criticize the way the bush administration has handled the hurricane response mainly want to find out what went wrong or mainly want to use the issue for political advantage ?  `` and , madam speaker , 60 percent said that democrats want to use this issue for political advantage rather than trying to get at what went wrong .  i would have never brought this up , madam speaker , had i not heard that 76 percent of the american people are opposed to having congress do its job and instead want an independent commission .  