madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  let me just respond to a couple of points .  first of all , under consideration of the establishment of this select committee , we will be operating under the standard rules of the house .  the standard rules of the house allow not individuals , but allow a committee to come together and determine who is subpoenaed .  and i will tell my colleagues that i know with absolute certainty that the people who are providing the leadership of this committee will clearly want to be in consultation with the democrats , with members of the minority to ensure that any witness who could help get to the bottom of this problem , to the root of this problem is called before the committee .  and i will tell my colleagues why .  i do not represent hollywood , california , by the way , i should say for the record ; i represent areas around hollywood in suburban los angeles , an area that has been impacted by a wide range of disasters .  i think it is absolutely reprehensible to believe that any member of this house , democrat or republican , would want to do anything that would jeopardize the ability to find out exactly what happened leading up to hurricane katrina and exactly what happened in the aftermath of hurricane katrina .  so i can assure my colleagues that i am convinced that everyone is determined to do that .  i should say that , as i sat down , one of my staff members reminded me that i mentioned this poll from the washington post and abc that is the model , i guess , that we are following for the establishment of this committee ; and even though it said that 60 percent of the american people believe that the democrats would use this issue for political advantage rather than trying to get to the root of this problem , i do not believe it for one minute .  i hesitate to say that the american people are wrong , but i will tell my colleagues this : i do not believe that the american people are right when they claim , to a number of 60 percent , that democrats do not want to get to the root of this problem , which is what they have said in this much-hailed abc news-washington post poll .  