mr. speaker , if the gentleman will continue to yield , he highlighted a point .  this outfit that is in the executive branch right now , it is all politics .  it is all politics all the time .  it is not about policy .  it is all about politics and trying to keep the republicans in the majority .  and i think when we see that five out of eight of the top appointments at fema are political hacks , i think when we look at passing a drug bill that does not have any cost controls for the drugs , does not allow for reimportation , all politics all the time .  weapons of mass destruction , go through all the war information we had before , all politics all the time .  how do we sell this to the american people ?  whether it is true or not , irrelevant .  we need to go to war , and we are going to say whatever we have to say to get it done .  now , as the gentleman mentioned earlier , talking about davis-bacon , davis and bacon were two republican members of congress who passed a prevailing wage law that allows for when federal money is being spent in a certain area that the feds will pay the prevailing wage of that area for the workers .  because if they are paying federal money , then they should obviously be paying for whatever the going rate is in that area .  so what the president did was he repealed the prevailing wage provision , basically saying that we are not going to have any oversight over the contractors .  we are going to send them billions of dollars .  halliburton is going to get their money .  we are going to pay them whatever we have got to pay them , $ 50 billion , $ 100 billion without any oversight from a bipartisan commission here ; and at the same time as we are not overseeing what the contractors are doing .  we are going to repeal the basic provision that allows for workers to at least make a decent wage in that area .  and today in the hill newspaper , these gentlemen from americans for tax reform are saying that this repeal will make it obvious that davis-bacon is nothing but dead weight .  so here these guys are wasting all of their time , all their energy on putting the screws to the workers , guys in new orleans that are now living in baton rouge or in mississippi or in houston who want to go back home and help rebuild their community and make the going rate in their community , the prevailing wage in their community , and these guys are wasting all their time and energy trying to screw them to the wall instead of overlooking and seeing what halliburton is doing .  we are using the same administrative process with the reconstruction of katrina as we have been using in the war , which wasted billions of dollars , no oversight of halliburton , no oversight of all of these people who make tremendous contributions back to the president ; and to have the audacity , with the great human tragedy that is there and the human suffering there , to say that you are going to waste your time and your energy making sure the workers do not get their fair share because that is dead weight , that is wasteful government spending .  these are the people who are going to go back and be able to actually do some work .  it is tremendous .  it is unbelievable .  it is all politics all the time with these guys , and this is just one more component of that .  they want to get rid of the unions , they want to get rid of prevailing wage .  this one gentleman in here , he says something along the lines of it is a waste of money because the federal money will go to the worker and if it is a union worker , the union worker will pay union dues per hourly wage .  you have to be kidding me .  these union workers pay like 5 cents an hour to go for the union dues , 10 cents an hour , it depends on what union you are in .  but to say that this is somehow going to bankrupt the government by paying a gentleman 