madam speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me this time .  madam speaker , i rise today in support of house resolution 437 to establish a select bipartisan committee to investigate the preparation for and the response to hurricane katrina .  madam speaker , congress has an important constitutional role to play in providing oversight to the executive branch and federal agencies .  but more importantly , congress has a responsibility to the people we represent to investigate the preparation and response efforts to hurricane katrina and make recommendations on how we can better prepare and respond to disasters in the future .  madam speaker , some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle oppose the idea of a bipartisan congressional committee held accountable to the people and by the people who elect us .  but , madam speaker , a bipartisan investigative committee held directly accountable by the people is exactly what is needed because we never know when or where the next disaster will strike , it is vital that congress move swiftly to investigate how local , state , and federal governments , along with the private relief agencies , can better communicate with one another and coordinate the relief efforts .  america must be better prepared to handle disasters in the future .  madam speaker , i am saddened that hours after hurricane katrina rescue and recovery efforts began , lawmakers were publicly pointing fingers rather than focusing on how to help the victims .  clearly , clearly in hindsight there are things that could have been done better .  only now that victims have been rescued and their immediate basic needs are being met is it appropriate that an investigation of what happened begin .  there is no question that hurricane katrina caused great devastation , the magnitude of which becomes more evident every day .  but , madam speaker , one of america 's greatest strengths is our long-standing tradition of pulling together in times of need .  i am proud that in my home state of washington , which is located 2 , 500 miles from louisiana and the gulf coast , families are reaching out to help those affected .  communities are collecting food , clothing , and cash donations .  for example , washington apple growers have contributed truckloads of world-class apples to people living in mississippi and the other hard-hit areas and throughout america .  families are opening up their homes , businesses are employing dislocated workers , citizens are traveling to the gulf coast region to help with recovery and rebuilding efforts , and schools are teaching children who have been displaced from their schools , homes , and friends .  america has been challenged by natural disasters in the past , and we will no doubt be challenged by disasters in the future .  only by republicans and democrats working together in a bipartisan fashion will the best interests of our nation prevail .  madam speaker , there is much to be learned from this disaster .  we must examine what worked , what did not , and what we need to do to be better prepared .  the primary focus of this bipartisan investigative committee should be that we should begin to prepare for the disasters ahead and not to assign blame .  i , therefore , urge my colleagues to support house resolution 437 .  