madam speaker , and so it continues .  this is a partisan , counterfeit commission if i have ever seen one proposed today , and i have two simple questions : will the administration escape accountability again ?  and the second question is this : will the administration get away with another failure ?  please note the word `` escape '' .  in fact , if you look in the bible , the old testament , leviticus , chapter 16 , verse 8 , we find the origin , the etymology of the word scapegoat , the goat that departs .  in scripture , you had two goats .  one was sacrificed for our sins ; the other escaped , was let go .  that is from the english word scapen , the old english , a form of escape .  so , brownie , he was sacrificed , and yesterday all of his minions resigned , all of these people that were hired .  we better have an objective review of what happened .  we better have an objective view , or else we are never going to get to the truth .  this is the most redactive , the most secretive administration in the history of the united states .  it has nothing to do with political partisanship either .  none whatsoever .  we have seen it repeatedly .  this is the administration that can show negligence , ineptitude , and dangerous arrogance without ever enduring the burden of even limited liability .  policy disasters abound , yet culpability is never encountered .  no one who has followed the workings of this body believes that a commission made up of apologists will ever hold the administration accountable for anything .  this is far too important for business as usual .  i implore my colleagues to vote against the bill , to demand the creation of a truly independent commission .  it worked 4 years ago .  it will work now .  i do not think there is anything wrong with this .  and when you talk about the ability to subpoena , the majority will have the right to oversee whether we can subpoena particular people .  this is phony .  all we ask for is to let us come together .  we agree we need to send help down there .  we are doing our best , both sides of the aisle .  let us have an independent review of what has happened and what is going on .  we are talking about people 's lives here .  