madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , i join with the gentleman from brownsville , texas ( mr. ortiz )  , in supporting h.r. 483 , a bill to name the courthouse in brownsville , texas , as the reynaldo g. garza-filemon b. vela united states courthouse .  madam speaker , this bill honors the life and works of two extraordinary mexican americans .  the first honoree , judge reynaldo garza , was born in brownsville in 1915 .  he graduated from local elementary schools as well as brownsville high school .  after graduating from brownsville junior college , he attended the university of texas where he received the combined degrees of bachelor of arts and bachelor of law .  judge garza served his country during world war ii in the air force .  after the war he returned to brownsville to practice law .  in 1961 president kennedy appointed judge garza to the district court for the southern district of texas .  in 1979 president carter appointed him to the united states court of appeals for the 5th circuit .  in addition to his judicial duties , judge garza has long been interested in education issues .  he served former governors john connally and mark white on commissions to improve the quality of education in texas .  judge garza recognized the importance of education in judicial proceedings and his concern for uneducated men at the mercy of unscrupulous people .  judge garza was very active in his church and has served the knights of columbus in the brownsville area for many years .  pope pius xii twice decorated judge garza for his work on behalf of public charities .  in 1989 judge garza was honored by the university of texas with a distinguished alumnus award .  his record of public service includes the work with the rotary club , the latin-american relation committee in brownsville , trustee at his law school , advisory council for the boy scouts , and he was elected as the city commissioner for the city of brownsville .  it is fitting and proper to honor judge garza 's outstanding , rich life , his commitment to excellence and his numerous public contributions .  the second honoree , madam speaker , judge filemon vela , was also a native texan and a veteran of the united states army .  he attended texas southmost college and the university of texas .  his law degree is from st .  mary 's school of law in san antonio .  judge vela served as a commissioner of the city of brownsville .  he was a member of the judges advisory committee to the u.s. sentencing commission .  judge vela is a former law instructor and an attorney for the cameron county child welfare department .  his civic activities including being the charter president for the esperanza home for boys and the co-sponsor of the spanish radio program `` enrich your life , complete your studies. '' judge vela 's other civic activities include membership on the independent school district task force and membership in the general assembly of the texas catholic conference .  he is also an active member of the lions club .  judge vela was nominated by president carter for the federal bench and was confirmed by the united states senate in 1980 .  judge vela 's career is filled with successes , commitment to his family , devotion to his religion and his church , love for his work and respect for his colleagues .  it is most fitting to honor judge vela with this designation .  i join the gentleman from texas ( mr. ortiz )  in supporting h.r. 483 .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  