mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  i thank the gentlewoman for her comments .  i certainly agree that this debate about the budget and the appropriations process is always a debate about our future , and it is a debate about priorities .  clearly , we have had a shift in priorities since that budget resolution passed .  as a state that was hit by four hurricanes last year and had the beginnings of katrina come across our state this year , our hearts go out to our brothers and sisters on the gulf coast , and we recognize that this government has a commitment to help lift up those citizens on the gulf coast and , where appropriate , we have a federal responsibility in the rebuilding and reconstruction process in louisiana and mississippi and alabama , and a lot of other places .  so i think that that reinforces the need for us to move ahead with this continuing resolution and allow our appropriations process to work , instead of positioning ourselves to a situation where we end up with an omnibus bill that i do not think either one of us thinks is the appropriate way to go .  there is an opportunity here for us to reprioritize , using regular order , using the strength and talent that sits on our committees , and bringing about a measured approach to doing that .  it is going to require offsets .  the numbers that are coming out of there fluctuate wildly , and it is important that we have a handle on what those needs truly are .  it is important that we recognize that had we not taken some of the steps that we have taken in the past , we would not have eliminated $ 100 billion off of the deficit in the last year .  we would not have been in a position where revenues to the government would have actually been higher than they were as a result of the lower taxes and the growth in the economy that has come about as a result of that .  but that is a debate for another day .  this is a debate about the continuing resolution and the need for us to make sure that the government does not shut down .  the house has done its work .  i think we can all be very proud of our appropriators finishing their schedule before july 4 , and now we are in a position , unfortunately , of being in a bit of a holding pattern , waiting on the senate and our conference committees to do their work .  but it is important for us to pass this rule and allow the cr to move ahead .  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  