mr. speaker , we find ourselves with so many things happening now .  we have increased gasoline prices , increased winter heating costs , natural gas prices are up , manufacturing jobs are down , all because the cost of energy has remained high .  our demand for oil has grown , our production simply can not meet demands , and this has caused increased prices .  we have increased population , and we want more manufacturers to remain in the united states .  that means that we have to do something .  mr. speaker , we do not need another hurricane to remind us that our energy infrastructure is wholly inadequate .  had we taken action to prevent our energy problems years ago , we would not have been vulnerable to natural disasters .  for 30 years , we sat back .  we did not want to study it .  we did not want to take inventories .  we did not want to explore .  we resisted drilling for oil or gas .  we did not build refineries .  we did not move to develop clean coal technology .  we did not build nuclear power plants over those 30 years , while demand grew .  and eventually the system snapped .  we did the same thing over and over again and expected different results .  until our refining capacity and production capacity expands , our oil markets will remain vulnerable to disruptions .  we have to have increased conservation measures .  we have to have the car-pooling measures in this bill .  we have to have energy-efficient cars , but we have to have more refineries .  during the last 30 years , our dependence or foreign energy has increased from 24 to 62 percent .  how much further do we have to go ?  the american people understand this , and that is why they support this .  that is why labor unions support this bill .  that is why we have to move this forward .  the gasoline for america 's security act builds on the energy policy act of 2005 and keeps us moving in the right direction .  it addresses a great deal of what we need , the use of biomass debris , car pooling , van pooling , requirements to direct the ftc to conduct an investigation into nationwide gasoline prices , and it does include anti-price-gouging measures .  the other side says repeatedly it is not in there , but it does .  it has anti-price-gouging measures and enforcement for gasoline , for diesel , for home heating oil , for crude oil .  it is massive .  there will be a temptation to blame the high gas prices on the storms alone or to use politics to block this .  but the american people understand , you can not drive a car with politics in your tank or heat a home with politics .  i support the rule and this bill .  