mr. speaker , the gasoline for america 's security act has a nice name , but it does little to help missouri 's farmers and rural commuters who are experiencing record high energy costs .  motorists in missouri and across the nation are paying a premium for gasoline and diesel fuel , especially in the wake of severe weather in the gulf of mexico .  missouri 's fourth congressional district is primarily rural , and residents rely heavily on transportation in going about their daily lives .  this is especially true for farmers who are also facing additional costs for natural gas , propane , fertilizer , and pesticides .  as energy expenses have sky-rocketed over the past few weeks , many missourians have expressed concern and skepticism about high prices and simultaneous reports of record oil industry profits .  in order to make sure consumers are being treated fairly , the federal trade commission and the justice department should be given explicit authority to investigate collusion and price gouging within the oil industry .  penalties must have teeth and must be severe .  and , importantly , the government must be guaranteed broader authority to look into potentially illegal behavior within other energy sectors , at least during times of national emergency .  the bill being considered by the house today contains scant assistance for the rural americans i am privileged to represent .  it will not lower their energy prices and it puts in place weak price gouging standards .  it also does little to promote additional refining capacity , while gutting important environmental safeguards and creating additional corporate tax breaks .  waiving environmental protections and offering federal tax breaks to oil companies will not entice them to build new oil refineries .  while more refineries would certainly help produce more gasoline , oil companies have had the opportunity and financial capability for years to increase their refining capacity .  environmental regulations are not stopping them .  rather , the inability to build profitable refineries has led oil company executives away from constructing or resurrecting them .  an alternative to this bill is being offered by mr. stupak of michigan and others .  the stupak bill would strengthen the hands of the federal trade commission and the justice department , targeting price gouging across the energy spectrum .  it would also help americans who are struggling to deal with high gas prices and bracing for record home heating bills this winter , while creating a strategic refinery reserve to provide additional gas supplies during energy shortages like the one we are currently facing .  i urge my colleagues to oppose the republican bill and support the more wisely drafted alternative .  