mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman 's comments , the speaker before me , because what he has really laid out is sort of the complaints that we hear from the democrat side of the aisle , the complaints for years when they controlled congress and laid out policies and rules and regulations that prevented , really , people to bring capital at risk to build refineries .  so we hear a lot of complaints , but we do not hear of ideas and actions to help an industry that will help america .  this is a good bill .  i support the bill .  i want to compliment the chairman for his good work .  i also believe that hurricane katrina did reveal a weakness in our energy supply systems , highlighting the reliance this country has on the gulf coast for our energy resources .  approximately 47 percent of the u.s. refining capacity and 28 percent of oil production are located in the hurricane-prone region .  so i think it is time for america to take steps to build more refineries and protect this country in time of natural disaster .  this is a good bill .  it will address our growing need for gasoline , heating oil , and other fuels and will bring more supply to the market and for the american people .  so despite the noise that we maybe hear on the floor , for the american people this is a good bill .  i am concerned , though , that a section of the bill was removed that dealt with the interchange rates , and what we wanted to do was to address the channels of trade to bring more transparency to how credit card companies actually apply these interchange rate fees and how the consumer then picks it up .  i am pleased , in a conversation with the chairman and the gentleman from florida ( mr. stearns )  , they are going to consider having a hearing on the issue ; and i think that is a good thing .  i strongly support the bush administration 's clean diesel rules , which will reduce air pollution from diesel engines by more than 90 percent , and reduce the sulfur content of diesel fuel by more than 95 percent .  these rules will not only help clean the air , but they will also encourage greater use of highly fuel-efficient clean diesel engines .  the use of highly fuel-efficient clean diesel engines is a mandates free way of making our existing domestic refining and oil production go further .  in fact , according to the department of energy , if diesel vehicles made up 20 percent of our fleet in 15 years , we would save 350 , 000 barrels of oil a day .  i understand the challenges that so-called `` boutique fuels '' present .  section 108 takes steps towards addressing these challenges .  however , i want to make it clear that i have been assured by the chairman of the energy and commerce committee , the gentleman from texas , that section 108 of the legislation does not intend to alter or delay -- in any way -- the bush administration 's on- and off-road diesel rules .  