mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this bill , the so-called gasoline for america 's security act .  now , this is not a partisan rant .  i am a democrat , but i supported the last energy bill .  it had considerable merit and a few flaws .  this bill is very flawed and has very little merit .  let us talk about refineries .  over the past 20 years , u.s. demand has increased 20 percent .  no new refineries have been built .  in fact , refining capacity has declined by 10 percent .  but contrary to what my colleagues just heard , there are no barriers stopping the refining industry from building new refineries and expanding capacity .  in fact , the key thing people need to understand in this debate is that the profit margins for the refineries has gone up 255 percent .  they are making more money than anybody else .  so there is no reason why we should give them some big subsidy or big benefit to encourage them to build refinery capacity .  this bill really is outrageous in terms of having the taxpayers pay the refineries to cover their unanticipated costs .  it is in the bill and it is called stand-by support , stand-by support .  what that means is if they encounter some sort of reasonable delay , government regulation , or something like that , and they suffer losses and they can not open on time or they are delayed in their operations , we , the taxpayer , get to pay for that .  that is not unusual .  that is not a crisis situation .  that is not the airlines after september 11 .  that is not an unusually high-risk situation .  these are delays in the normal course of business ; but , yet , this bill would have the taxpayer pay for those losses , and that does not make sense .  let me take a minute and talk about price gouging .  now , they came out of committee with a very limited bill that basically talked about gasoline , and now they say , well , we want to broaden it a little bit .  let me suggest that the broadest possible protection for the american people in terms of price gouging comes from the democratic substitute .  it gives the broadest jurisdiction over the most types of fuel , including propane , home heating oil , crude oil .  that is where we need to be , not with the limited approach of the republicans .  they also do not deal with market manipulation , and market manipulation is where the consumer takes the hit .  i urge rejection of the republican bill and adoption of the democratic alternative .  