mr. speaker , i rise in support of the protection of lawful commerce in arms act .  i am an original cosponsor of the house version of this legislation , h.r. 800 .  a lawsuit against a gun manufacturer simply for being a gun manufacturer has no business in american courts .  i am proud that every court in our judicial system has agreed with that and has thrown out these frivolous lawsuits .  however , in u.s. courts we have the american rule , where each side pays their own legal fees under normal circumstances , instead of the english rule , where the loser usually pays .  generally , i support the american rule because it is fairer to individuals seeking relief from large firms .  unfortunately the american rule can mean that frivolous lawsuits which have no chance of going anywhere still impose a terrible burden on parties .  some people in this country are politically opposed to the firearm industry and believe most firearms should be illegal or hard to obtain .  so these folks do not have a problem spending non-profit money and public money on a losing lawsuit in pursuit of ideology .  however , that is not fair to the firearm industry , which is not only completely legal , but has the right to own their product enshrined in the u.s. constitution .  therefore , it is particularly bad that the firearm industry has had to pay $ 200 million to defend themselves from frivolous lawsuits that have never , ever succeeded in court .  s. 397 only protects legitimate businesses that comply with federal , state and local firearm laws .  the bill does not waive liability for actually defective products , breach of contract or warranty , or other causes that are not related to third-party criminal misuse of firearms .  if we are going to sue firearm makers for armed robberies , why not go on and sue the auto maker who made the get-away car ?  the idea is absurd , but some groups and politicians want to punish firearm manufacturers for their very existence .  as a result , we must pass s. 397 and send it to the president .  