mr. speaker , i rise to lament the wrecking of a solid , bipartisan bill that , at one time , both established a tough new regulator for our nation 's secondary mortgage market and created a new national housing trust to build affordable housing .  our nation 's economic security and the housing opportunity of millions of americans is being played with on the floor today .  but more than this particular bill , i also lament the fact that this congress is held hostage to the extreme right wing agenda of the majority .  a small cabal of 50 or so members who , though small in number , loud in voice , threaten this republican majority and hold this congress and our country hostage .  they claim they want smaller government but they are saddling our children with trillions in the notorious birth tax -- yes , every child born in america today comes into this world with a $ 30 , 000 debt to the government thanks to the skewed economic policies of the so-called fiscally conservative republican party .  they claim to help people but want to strip away student loans from college kids , medicaid from the poor , and aid to farmers , for bigger tax cuts for the richest americans .  they claim they support families , but they are robbing the basic tenet of the american dream -- home ownership -- right here in this very bill .  they claim to represent people of faith , but they are stripping away the ability of groups like catholic charities , baptists and other people of faith to use this new funding to benefit their communities and make america stronger .  if this rule passes the republicans will have done what they do best , stripping away the american dream of owning a home for millions of americans .  as well as continuing on their path to destroying what this country stands for , religious freedom , home ownership and the ability of child to live a better life than his or her parents .  this debate is bigger than this rule , bigger than this bill .  it goes to the heart of who the republican party is today , and it is a party that does not stand for working people .  this rule demonstrates this fact .  vote down this anti-religion , anti-american rule .  