mr. speaker , this is a very important vote under consideration .  i wish to point out that 3.5 percent assessment of net profits for the first 2 years will generate an estimated $ 400 million a year nationwide .  the identified needs for hurricane katrina only are probably in excess of $ 300 billion for housing-related activities .  if we add rita and wilma , the funds will be far depleted before we ever get to the issue of whether we need to be engaged in voter registration or voter transport to the precincts .  if one were to go to trailer city on groom road in baker , louisiana , and walk up to one of those trailers and say , hey , folks , i am here from the federal government and i want to buy a new van to haul you to the precinct next year to go vote , what kind of response do you think you will get if you said that will come at the expense of advancing replacement housing for families to go home ?  and then let us talk about the administration of the program .  how do you confirm affordable housing works and they are doing it ?  you look at the lot and see the house .  you knock on the door and see if anybody is inside .  that is easy .  how do you confirm that the money being spent for voter enhancement , education , and transportation is used for a valid purpose ?  do you go to uncle bob 's rv trailer park and look to see if they are using those vehicles for voter transport ?  how do we know ?  the idea here is we have very restricted resources .  we have an incredibly large problem to resolve with response to the hurricanes .  we know that by deploying these resources this way , we can ensure we are helping people in the most effective manner possible .  we should come back through regular order , have committee hearings and talk about it .  how are we going to have advocacy for people to be able to vote and participate ?  and if we want to fund that , fund it separately .  this is not the time , not the place , not the way .  please , do not vote for this motion to recommit .  