mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this legislation .  i support increasing oversight of fannie mae and freddie mac .  it is a worthwhile goal , one that the recent scandals at these institutions and on wall street illustrate is sorely needed .  and i support the creation of a budget-neutral affordable housing fund .  indeed , that this kind of program should be created , given the proclivity of this republican house of gutting programs for the poor , is nothing short of miraculous .  however , i can not support a program whose benefits come at the expense of the rights of nonprofit organizations .  the provision in question would disqualify any nonprofit group that engages in voter participation activities , such as voter registration and get-out-the-vote efforts , from applying for a grant under the affordable housing fund .  this would apply even if the activities are non-partisan and even if they are paid for with non-federal monies .  this provision would have a chilling effect on the constitutional speech and association rights of all nonprofits .  how can the republicans , in good faith , claim to work with us on the reauthorization of the voting rights act , and turn around and tie the hands of those groups who are trying to incorporate the disenfranchised into the democratic process ?  what 's worse , this provision is entirely superfluous .  nonprofits are already prohibited from using federal funds to lobby .  however , they are free to engage in lobbying and nonpartisan voter registration with non-federal dollars .  this bill is a slap in the face to those groups who need this money most .  what 's more , this restriction only applies to non-profit organizations , not any for-profit entities seeking grants from the fund .  this bill also essentially bars non-profits whose mission extends beyond the provision of affordable housing .  many organizations develop and manage effective affordable housing programs alongside programs that provide food , closing , counseling , and other health and social services .  those who claim to work on behalf of the faith-based community should take a close look at this bill , and should watch this vote closely .  by voting aye you are barring church groups from affordable housing funds if their primary mission goes beyond affordable housing .  this is a typical piece of republican legislation .  once again , my friends from across the aisle have poisoned legislation that would otherwise have received bipartisan support by picking on those who can least afford to defend themselves .  i encourage my colleagues to join me in opposing this bill , and supporting the motion to recommit .  we can and should do better .  