mr. chairman , i appreciate the opportunity to discuss this important ' legislation as i make a final push to keep forts gillem and mcpherson open by voting in support of a joint house resolution to reject the president 's approval of the 2005 round of base realignments and closures .  i cosponsored the measure , h. j. res. 65 , which disapproves the recommendations of the defense base realignment and closure commission ( brac ) as submitted by the president to congress on september 15 , 2005 .  i am disappointed that h. j. res. 65 failed to pass the house today by a vote of 85-324 .  congress had until october 30 , 2005 to pass a joint resolution of disapproval of the list .  unfortunately , this round of base closings and realignments has failed to accomplish the military goals of shedding excess operations and facilities without seriously weakening our national security and homeland defense .  i strongly oppose the president 's recommendations to close ft .  gillem and fort mcpherson , and i have tried to make a strong case in their defense at every opportunity available to me , including directly addressing members of the brac commission and urging president bush to consider their unmatched military value and unique strategic readiness for homeland defense .  my efforts to remove forts gillem and mcpherson from the brac list of closings proved partly successful since i secured the extension of six federal functions at an enclave at ft .  gillem , blocking a complete closing of the military base .  these functions include the u.s. army criminal investigation laboratory , georgia army national guard , 3rd medcom , se army reserve intelligence center , fema , and red cross .  i am very disappointed by the outcome of today 's vote and that ft .  gillem and ft .  mcpherson remained on the brac list for closure despite the vital role they continue to play in coordinating the deployment of troops abroad and federal response to national disasters like this year 's string of devastating hurricanes .  following today 's vote , the defense department is now charged with carrying out the recommended closures and realignments .  therefore , i will work with defense officials and the local redevelopment authority during the upcoming transition period for forts gillem and mcpherson .  