mr. speaker , i know the theme of the minority is the republicans abuse power and they are corrupt ; but i think this example is absolutely ludicrous , given that it was recommended by a prominent democrat member of the house administration committee who happens to support the legislation .  and she prudently recommended it because at the time it seemed like it was a relatively noncontroversial idea , supported by most of us .  i would venture to guess that the outcome will be just as she assumed , that it will pass by the two-thirds vote required .  i just can not sit here and listen to this recitation when it is so unfair , given the facts of this particular case .  mr. speaker , the constitution is clear , `` congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech. '' unfortunately , the u.s. supreme court ruled to the contrary that , in this instance , in political speech congress may abridge the freedom of speech and it may do so under the guise of preventing corruption or the appearance thereof in campaign activities .  i disagree with that decision , but the supreme court has spoken for now , so we must live with it .  i am grateful to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who at least feel , as concerns the internet , that there are compelling policy reasons why that should not be subject to this kind of regulation .  heaven help the average american if they fall under a regulation similar to what any candidate must now undergo for federal office because that would basically mean that you would have to check with your accountant and check with your attorney before you engage in the internet communication that might at all be perhaps close to whatever the line would be .  in other words , it would have a chilling impact on people 's exercise of what we believe should be their free speech rights .  this rise of the internet is one of the greatest democratic , with a small d , trends the world has ever known .  anybody with access to a computer can communicate throughout the world his or her views .  why would we seek to regulate such an activity and to place this chilling impact out there ?  i commend , by the way , the fec .  they correctly decided not to regulate the internet .  unfortunately , the big government campaign reformers found that intolerable , filed suit in federal court and were vindicated with the judge ruling that , indeed , the law required the fec to regulate .  in the absence of our passing this kind of legislation , the internet will be regulated .  mr. speaker , we must put an end to this now before it spreads out of control .  please vote yes for the hensarling bill .  i am so grateful the gentleman introduced it , and i commend him for it .  please support freedom of speech .  the online freedom of speech act is what this legislation is called .  now is the time to draw a clean , clear , bright line and say if you are engaging in speech over the internet you do not have to check with your lawyer or your accountant .  you are a free american , and you have the opportunity to engage in free speech over the internet .  vote yes .  