mr. speaker , let me share with you the real facts of this trade bill ; and let me thank mr. cardin , mr. levin , and mr. rangel  for really doing the heavy lifting which has created an opportunity for real debate on a good trade bill .  there are concerns that my colleagues have raised about this trade bill , but i think there are provisions and there are reasons for us to give an open and free flowing discussion to a vital partner that we have had for many , many years .  it is important to note that bahrain is predominantly a manufacturing country .  its products include oil products and aluminum products , and we know for sure it has lessened its involvement in textiles .  but what most members do not know is that 80 percent of the investment of this country has been invested in the united states .  that raises my interest .  it is invested in real estate , in banking and other opportunities .  i like trade bills that create jobs and i want to thank my friends in the labor movement who have raised concerns about child employment , about provisions that should be protecting unions and protecting workers .  i am concerned about the fact that most of these provisions are in the side letters .  it is unfortunate when the republican administration sat down to negotiate with bahrain , they did not sit down and create the intelligent and forward-thinking provisions that are in the letters created by the democratic ways and means members .  but these letters , i am told , will have the same sort of authority as provisions in the trade bill , and if they are violated , there will be opportunities for consultation in order to ensure that these provisions are made .  i will be looking forward to receiving additional information that will prohibit child labor , but i think the crux of this trade bill , with the observation that it is certainly timely , to ensure that we do think about labor issues and we fight for the labor issues .  i do not stand here to create this divide that my good friend on the other side of the aisle who said you , who are against trade bills .  no , we are not against trade bills .  but we are against trade bills that singly ignore the rights of workers .  if the democrats were in control , as we had the opportunity in the permanent normal trade relations with china , although that is not the best example , but i remember the hard work and the heavy lifting of democrats to create a better trade bill .  that is the problem we have .  that these bills are negotiated and they are , if you will , negotiated without a concern for workers .  in this instance i think the democrats have worked very hard to make this a fair bill for a partner of the united states , who has been a strong partner and a democratic partner .  i ask as members consider this legislation to look at the improvements that have been made and the side bar letters that have created the right kind of negotiated document to help the people who would be benefited in bahrain , and also help investment here in the united states .  we would like to create jobs .  