mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , i would also like to associate myself with the remarks of the gentleman from maryland .  i think he spoke quite eloquently about the importance of this agreement to the region .  when the history of the middle east is written , i think the historians will view this trade bill as an important stepping stone towards the development and imposition of democracies and stability in that part of the world , which is very much in our best interest .  bahrain has been a great ally through many , many years of troubling times , and times when it was not necessarily easy to be friends with the united states if you are in the middle east and if you are an arab country .  but they have stood with us .  our naval base there is quite important .  i think it is important that we try to do everything we can to do business with our friends .  they have proven to be a great friend of the united states .  we have visited with the ambassador from bahrain who is a delightful man who is a great salesman for his country .  i believe that this is a significant vote .  this is not just a flea on an elephant , as mr. stark  stated .  this is an important ally in which we are going to have a free trade agreement .  i would urge all members to vote yes on this most important issue , because i think a message must be sent out loud and strong that we are supporting free trade when we have a good agreement drawn .  this has been drawn and approved in a bipartisan way .  this is good for the united states .  it is not only good for bahrain , but it is good for the united states .  i would also like to thank mr. cardin , mr. rangel and other members from the other side of the aisle , as well as mr. ryan  and chairman thomas , and all of those who have worked hard to bring this along , and of course staff on both sides of the aisle .  congress can not operate without staff , and i would like to thank them for what they have done in putting this agreement together .  