mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , again we have an opportunity to stand up for american families .  again , we have an opportunity to stand up for free trade and pass the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement .  this is a simple matter .  free trade delivers a greater choice of goods and services to american consumers at lower prices .  that means families can buy more using less of their paychecks .  more trade means more competition , and competition has always helped the consumer .  we have over 200 years of history to prove that .  in fact , mr. speaker , over the past few years , prices have dropped for a wide array of goods and services which are produced around the world , such as video equipment and toys .  yet we pay a lot more for products that do not effectively compete with foreign companies , for example , prescription drugs and cable television .  again , competition works .  trade works .  but beyond all of the obvious economic benefits of free trade , we must recognize that fundamentally this is an issue of personal freedom .  nations do not trade with nations ; people trade with people .  with the exception of national security considerations , every american should have the right to determine the origin of the goods and services they want to purchase .  is this not the land of the free ?  have countless generations not fought and sacrificed to secure the blessings of liberty for all americans ?  maybe we in congress have the power , but do we have the right to tell americans that we will not allow them to buy cheaper products because those products may come from other nations ?  i think not , mr. speaker .  mr. speaker , this particular trade agreement not only stands for freedom ; it stands for friendship .  the nation of bahrain is a friend of the united states and an important ally in the global war on terror .  for over 200 years , america has benefited from trade and competition .  i urge my colleagues to once again reject protectionism and , instead , stand for prosperity , stand for freedom , and stand with me in voting for this trade agreement .  