mr. speaker , i rise today in strong support of the bahrain free trade agreement .  this agreement is good for the united states , and it is good for bahrain .  it has real trade benefits .  but beyond that , it will strengthen relations with one of our most steadfast friends in the middle east .  progress made on labor and economic reforms can stand as a model for future trade agreements with the middle east .  the ways and means committee 's bipartisan approval of the u.s.-bahrain free trade agreement is symbolic of the cooperative and supportive relationship that exists between the two countries .  this agreement will bring benefits to both countries , strengthen economic ties , and promote social , political , and economic opportunities .  the bahrainis have taken difficult , but important , progressive steps that will elevate standards in bahrain and help promote stability in the middle east .  bahrain has been a steadfast american ally through world war ii , the gulf war , and the war on terrorism .  bahrain has implemented multiple substantive reforms over the past few years , including the adoption of a new constitution to transform the country from a hereditary emirate to a constitutional monarchy , the creation of a bicameral legislature , and granting suffrage to all citizens over 18 years of age .  in addition , bahrain has made significant improvements to its labor laws and has dismantled its arab league boycott of israel .  my friends , globalization is here .  and as tom friedman indicated , yes , indeed , the world is flat .  we have made sure that we are more interdependent upon one another ; and it is good to be interdependent , because with that interdependence , we as a nation begin to depend on others in this world .  the world is much smaller than it was just 40 years ago .  as we become dependent upon one another , raising the standards of living all over this world , we then indeed ensure a safer united states of america and a more harmonized world .  i say let us vote for this .  it is good for america , it is good for bahrain , and it is good for the middle east .  