mr. speaker , unless we enact h.r. 4297 and defeat the democratic substitute , americans will receive a most unwelcome christmas gift from the democrats , a huge automatic tax increase .  this will cost families billions of dollars and jeopardize millions of their jobs .  mr. speaker , let me tell you just about a few of those jobs that could be lost in my east texas district if the democrats have their way in raising taxes .  hugh dublin owns a small business called east texas right of way in my district .  he specializes in the leasing of land .  due to tax relief , his company has grown from two full-time employees to four full-time employees .  his two new employees are called dan and david .  they were unemployed .  they were out of work .  but due to the expansion of this business , they were able to start new careers .  the democrats now want to raise taxes on hugh dublin and his small business .  they want to jeopardize dan and david 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks , and this they call compassion .  eddie alexander owns triple s electric in henderson , texas , an electrical contracting business .  since the passage of our economic growth program with tax relief , he has been able to hire two more full-time employees , jared and john , both of whom were out of work , but both now provide homes for their families .  the democrats want to raise taxes on eddie alexander and his small business .  they want to jeopardize jared and john 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks , and this they call compassion .  gil travers owns travers & amp ; company , a home building company in athens , texas .  due to the housing boom from tax relief , they have had to hire three new workers , jan , calvin and christy .  they were all previously unemployed .  they have been hired to help clean up all of the job sites from the new homes .  but the democrats now want to raise taxes on gil travers and his small business .  they want to jeopardize jan 's , calvin 's , and christy 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks , and this they call compassion .  mr. speaker , tax relief has credited 4.4 million new tax-paying jobs with a future : 4.4 million hardworking americans can now provide for their families this christmas .  and more than just providing food and shelter , these jobs are providing new-found hope and opportunity .  we can not go back .  we must prevent this democratic tax increase .  