mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman from new york for yielding me this time .  mr. speaker , once again , i rise in disbelief about what the house is about to do today .  it is my belief that we are moving down the wrong road .  before we left for thanksgiving , the republican leadership twisted arms to pass a bill slashing funding for vital programs that benefit the neediest americans .  some might say that the bill was callous .  i say that the bill was immoral .  today , it is still immoral , uncaring , and without compassion .  but now , to add insult to injury , we have returned to washington so that the republican majority can line the pockets of those at the very top .  that is right , they cut vital programs and services that benefit hardworking , low- and middle-income americans , and with the money saved they are giving more tax cuts to the wealthiest of the wealthy .  and in the process of robbing working families to give to the rich , we are ballooning the debt , saddling our children and grandchildren with the bill .  everybody loses under this bill .  everybody .  that is except the top one-fifth of 1 percent .  some might call them the super rich ; apparently the majority calls them donors .  it is unbelievable .  it is unbelievable that we are doing this during this season .  the holy season .  it is unreal .  this season , of all seasons , you would think they would not have the audacity , the gall to pass such a disgraceful and shameful piece of legislation .  oh , but they do .  where is our compassion ?  all of the great religions of the world speak to the issue of taking care of basic human needs .  during this season , the question must be asked : what would the great teacher do ?  what would jesus do ?  we are saying we are people of faith , and yet during this most holy season we do this ?  have we lost our way ?  how long , but oh , how long will we continue to take care of those at the very top and not those in the middle and those at the very bottom ?  how long , but oh , how long ?  this bill is not fair .  it is not right .  it is not just .  as a nation and as a people , as a congress , we can do better .  mr. speaker , i appeal to my colleagues to reject this shameful bill .  