mr. speaker , this is a bill that does not deserve the kind of rhetoric that is being delivered so far , at least that which i have heard on the rule .  this bill consists of extending current tax provisions .  it virtually breaks no new ground .  it merely retains those structures supported in committee , for example , in a bipartisan way , to allow people to continue to utilize current tax privileges .  i have a hard time when i listen to the rhetoric associated with the description of this bill when one of the provisions , for example , is the authority to issue qualified zone academy bonds for school modernization , equipment in high-poverty areas .  i can not believe my colleagues on the other side of the line are opposed to that .  above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses , in opposing this bill , i guess they are opposed to that .  continue the deduction for state and local sales taxes due to expire , i guess they are opposed to that .  i could go through and point out a number of items .  for example , the work opportunity tax credits for hiring individuals who face barriers to employment , in addition to the extension .  the age limit for eligible food stamp recipients is increased from 25 to 35 .  maybe they are opposed to that .  i guess when we go through and examine these various provisions , if those are items that are reserved for the rich , the millionaires and the privileged , i guess i just do not understand it .  but they are required to attack any bill that allows americans to hang on to their own hard-earned money .  that is just kind of fundamental , i guess .  my concern is if they are going to produce the kind of rhetoric they are producing on a piece of tax legislation which simply extends current law , what are they going to do when we have to rethink the way in which we tax people today to make sure that we do not destroy the economic engine in this country that produces the quality of life-style for each and every american ?  mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  