mr. speaker , that is a very important point .  i know when this debate takes place tomorrow , and we have heard about so many of the great tax relief provisions which have been passed for american families and small business , and how they are going to be taken away tomorrow if we do not defeat this democrat tax increase , but the capital gains and dividends , we know the rhetoric .  the class warfare rhetoric of our friends on the other side of the aisle , we know it is coming .  yet i sit here and i think they claim they love jobs , they just seem to hate the people who create them .  capital gains and dividends is all about investment .  again , you can not have the benefits of capitalism and job creation without that capital in the first place .  since i was quite young , i have held a number of jobs in my life .  my first job , i come from an agricultural family .  we raised poultry .  frankly , my first job in life was cleaning out chicken houses .  it was a job i did not want to hold for later on .  later i bussed tables at the holiday inn in college station , texas .  i used to be a desk clerk at the ramada inn .  i used to load windows at a window factory in bryan , texas .  i am trying to live it down , but i actually practiced law once .  i was an officer in two different corporations .  the point i am making is of all of the jobs i have had , i have always tried to work hard and tried to learn something and tried to improve myself and move up that ladder .  and guess what , in all of the jobs i have had , no poor person ever hired me .  no poor person ever hired me .  it was somebody who had managed to amass some capital , and he or she went out and risked that capital in a business enterprise that succeeded and because of that i got a job .  i received a paycheck .  again , you can not love jobs and hate the people who create them .  by trying to increase the taxes on capital gains and dividends , you are attacking investors , you are attacking job creators and you are taking away jobs from american families , and that is wrong and that is another reason we must defeat this democrat tax increase tomorrow .  