mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman yielding me time .  i also appreciate the fact that the gentleman from washington is willing to acknowledge christmas here on the house floor .  that is a nice step in the right direction .  mr. speaker , let us look at the facts .  to hear the other side , you would think we were taking a chain saw to the budget .  what we are proposing in the budget is that we increase entitlement spending 6.3 percent instead of 6.4 percent , saving $ 50 billion out of a $ 14 trillion budget , by rooting out waste , fraud and abuse by reforming government .  but let us talk about these tax cuts .  you would think when we cut taxes in 2003 we would have lost revenues .  right ?  that is the intuitive thing to say .  wrong .  that is not what happened .  since the enactment of the 2003 tax cuts , job losses went away .  the unemployment rate was 6.1 percent when we cut taxes .  the unemployment rate is 5 percent .  since we cut taxes , we have averaged a job creation every month of 148 , 000 jobs .  just last month alone we added 215 , 000 jobs to the economy .  what happened before we cut taxes ?  before we cut taxes , the 2 years before the tax cut , our economy grew at an average of 1.1 percent .  how fast is the economy growing since the tax cuts ?  4.1 percent .  how fast did the economy grow last quarter ?  4.3 percent .  now , mr. speaker , what has happened since we cut taxes is we have reversed the job loss , we have reversed the decline in jobs , and we have added 4.4 million jobs to the american economy since the 2003 tax cuts .  what happened to revenues ?  revenues increased .  yes , that is right .  at these lower tax rates , at these lower taxes , we increased revenues to the federal government .  last year revenues went up 14 percent .  just this year individual income tax receipts are up 14 percent .  corporate income tax receipts are up 47 percent .  what happened to the deficit , mr. speaker ?  the deficit projection in 2004 was $ 521 billion .  what is the deficit now ?  the deficit projection now is $ 319 billion .  we dropped the deficit 23 percent last year .  we dropped the deficit 25 percent last year .  the deficit is down because tax revenues are up .  do not defeat this bill and raise taxes .  let 's stop tax increases .  