mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time .  mr. speaker , again , i think it is very important that we vote no on this resolution .  essentially , it is going to accomplish nothing .  i said before that , when mr. hastings , who is the sponsor , first spoke earlier today , he said that the task force will have no legislative jurisdiction .  if you read section 3 , jurisdiction , under the resolution , it specifically says : the task force may develop recommendations and report to the house on the final report of the u.s. commission on ocean policy making recommendations for a national oceans policy entitled , an ocean blueprint for the 21st century .  so , again , it says in the resolution , this is nothing but a report on another report which is already 500 pages , and $ 10 million of taxpayers ' money has been spent on it .  why should we spend another $ 400 , 000 to come up with another report on the report with no legislative action ?  my democratic colleague mr. farr  says he has a bill , oceans-21 .  he is the co-chair of the oceans caucus , bipartisan legislation .  he asked the gentleman from maryland , when is there going to be a hearing on that ?  no answer .  when is it going to be reported out ?  no answer .  why ?  because this republican congress does not want to take any action on the ocean commission 's recommendations .  they just want to do another study , another report , another 6-month delay , another $ 400 , 000 , $ 500 , 000 spent .  it is ridiculous .  we had the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey )  she said , why is n't her bill being reported ?  now , i know my colleague from maryland said , well , we ca n't do this because this goes across so many committees ' jurisdictions .  that is really not a legitimate argument .  the bottom line is that this house republican leadership has taken bills , as i said many times , written them in the rules committee .  the notion that they can not get their act together and report out some of these bills , it just does not make any sense .  i think that what we are seeing here is a delaying tactic .  if you think about it , once this gets started , another 6 months , we will be halfway into the last year of this congress , and we will basically see absolutely nothing happen .  the only way that we are going to see action on the ocean commission 's recommendations , the only way that we are going to see anything happen here is if we eliminate this task force and we demand and build pressure on the republican leadership to report out legislation that has already been introduced that would enact the u.s. ocean commission 's report .  that is the main reason i believe why we must vote no on this legislation .  it will accomplish nothing .  it is simply another delay .  