madam speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume .  madam speaker , the objective of this legislation should be to encourage the retention and expansion of traditional defined benefit plans .  traditional defined benefit plans generally offer a guaranteed benefit to the worker and , they are generally well managed and diversified .  the passage of this bill , in my view , will set up a conference report that will come back to us that will accelerate the termination of well-funded and managed traditional defined benefit plans .  and i say that for three reasons .  three parts of this legislation will adversely affect well-funded and managed plans .  first , the funding roles are more costly and more restrictive .  that in and of itself will act as a disincentive for continuation of these plans .  second , there is a failure to include relief for the airline industry , clearly putting pressure on well-funded and managed plans to pick up the costs for other industries , questioning whether they should stay and provide these plans .  third , we continue to allow companies to go into bankruptcy in order to dump their costs onto the pbgc , once again affecting those well-funded plans that are going to be asked to pick up the tab .  for all these reasons this legislation is likely to accelerate the termination of plans that we would want to see continued .  the termination of these plans will just adversely affect the funding of the pbgc , the guaranteed fund , complicating the situation and making it worse .  madam speaker , i want to point out that there are provisions in this legislation that are very good .  the provisions dealing with the defined contribution provisions are needed and , as it was pointed out in the ways and means committee , contain many of the provisions that were worked on through the portman-cardin process as well as legislation presented by mr. emanuel  and mr. pomeroy .  it includes automatic enrollment , the split refunds where tax refunds can go partially into retirement savings , the extension of the savers credit , the ability for individuals to roll over funds and keep them in retirement funds longer .  all of those are positive aspects .  however , when you look at this bill in balance , we do need to pass legislation ; but on balance this legislation will cause more harm than good , and i urge my colleagues to reject the bill .  madam speaker , i reserve the balance of my time .  