mr. speaker , when this issue first came to the floor , i was very concerned , certainly , about how it dealt with some of our manufacturing companies and our workers as well .  so many people in my district have worked a lifetime to secure a good pension to help them in their retirement years .  they perform jobs that are difficult on them , both physically and mentally ; and they have earned their pension .  in michigan we have so many workers in the airline industry , because , of course , detroit is the hub for northwest airlines .  but we obviously also have a huge number of auto workers because of the big three and the numerous suppliers to the auto industry that reside there .  northwest airlines supports this legislation , as does continental airlines , american airlines , delta airlines .  so you might think , well , it must be bad for the airline workers then , right ?  but the bill is actually supported by the airline pilots association and the association of flight attendants .  so both management and labor do support this bill .  this bill is also supported by general motors and even the delphi corporation .  so you might think it might be bad for auto workers , right ?  well , it is actually also supported by the united auto workers union .  in fact , it is also supported by the affiliated unions of the building and construction trades department of the afl-cio , the bricklayers and allied craft workers , the transport workers union , the united brotherhood of carpenters and joiners , and the united food and commercial workers union .  it is also supported by the u.s. chamber of commerce and the business roundtable .  any bill that acquires the support of business and labor must be doing something right in today 's economy and this climate .  i think we have crafted an excellent piece of legislation .  it does what needs to be done : it protects workers pensions .  let us pass this legislation .  let us get it into conference with the senate , and let us get on with the job of ensuring that workers are secure in the knowledge that the pension that they have worked so hard to get will be there when they retire .  