mr. speaker , there are two major problems with this bill .  the first is that it costs $ 70 billion and the costs are not paid for , not offset anywhere .  it drives the deficit deeper .  last week , this chamber voted to deal with the amt 1-year fix , $ 31 billion .  the majority voted to pass a budget reconciliation that added another $ 56 billion in deficit .  this adds an additional $ 70 billion in deficit .  $ 177 billion in deeper deficits .  you know , it is christmastime .  people are thinking what to give their children .  well , the majority seems intent on giving them quite a present indeed , $ 177 billion deeper deficit going on top of $ 8 trillion of debt .  the second aspect of this bill that i want to point out is that it is deeply flawed pension policy , and it will cause the cancellation , freezing of thousands of plans affecting millions of workers .  do not take my word for it .  this is the estimate of the chief investment officers in an organization known as civa .  they estimate that if this bill passes , 60 percent of the plans will freeze .  frozen plans mean frozen benefits .  and we do not know , the rest may freeze as well .  they conclude : `` these proposals would have long-term consequences for current and future workers with the potential to damage the retirement security of millions of americans. '' potential to damage the retirement security of millions of americans .  we have seen this story before .  this is a group that worked for months to privatize social security , take away that monthly dependable income our seniors enjoy .  well , they failed on that one .  now they are after pensions , and without question this will dismantle pensions in the very same way they tried to dismantle social security .  now , several groups are for this bill .  why ?  well , airlines are so desperate for a fix they are arguing for this bill even though it has no provisions for airlines .  i was stunned when the chairman announced in a colloquy his lines of communication are open .  well , mr. chairman , people have been calling .  airlines have been calling .  hello .  advocates for airlines , worrying about their workers have been calling .  hello , northwest airlines has been calling .  hello .  delta airlines , calling .  hello .  no answer .  no answer from the majority .  and so someone that supports an airline urged to vote for this bill when the provision is utterly left out , it makes no sense .  you do not help airlines with this proposal .  the democrats had an alternative that had airline relief in it .  it was not even allowed for consideration .  you think you are going to be treated fairly in conference committee .  the administration opposes airline relief .  the chairman has spoken out against airline relief .  there is nothing in the bill for airline relief .  they are hoping against hope that something will be done .  they deserve so much more than that .  i believe that this bill is deeply flawed pension policy .  it will hurt workers .  vote `` no . '' 