mr. speaker , today , without a doubt , we should congratulate the iraqi people for what appears to be a successful , high-turnout election .  for the third time this year , courageous iraqi citizens have enthusiastically exercised their democratic rights .  but successful elections do not , and can not , obscure the devastating national tragedy that is the iraq war .  it does n't change the fact that over 2 , 100 americans have died for weapons of mass destruction that never existed .  it does n't change the fact that this war has turned iraq into a hotbed of terrorist activity .  it does n't change the fact that our troops are sitting ducks for the insurgents , who have been emboldened -- not deterred -- by our military presence in iraq .  here 's the bottom line : a successful iraqi election should , at the very least , reinforce the imperative of bringing our troops home .  if iraq is truly able to self-govern , then we have no business occupying their country and meddling in their affairs .  i 've argued all year long that it 's time to restore iraqi sovereignty and give iraq back to the iraqi people .  if the election is a watershed moment as the white house claims ... ..  then what is the continued justification for having our troops over there in harm 's way ?  now is the time to enlist the support of the international community to establish an interim security force for iraq .  but that 's just the start .  as i 've written to the president in a letter signed by 61 other members of the house , the united states must also launch a `` diplomatic offensive , '' recasting our role in iraq as reconstruction partner rather than military occupier .  we must also lead the way in establishing an international peace commission to oversee the post-war reconciliation and coordinate peace talks between iraq 's various factions .  the majority of the american people are n't behind it .  our global allies are n't behind it .  the iraqi people are n't behind it .  even iraqi leaders -- sunni , shiite and kurdish alike , who agree on practically nothing -- have united around a call for the united states military to leave .  with the iraqi people having voted once again , let 's offer the ultimate vote of confidence in their democracy .  let 's reward the self-sufficiency they 've demonstrated -- by giving them their country back and bringing american soldiers home .  