mr. speaker , the odds of success in iraq are not enhanced by congress continuing to act as a rubber stamp for president bush .  we need a change in strategic vision in iraq .  this resolution says that setting a timetable somehow is a communist plot , but , in fact , the president himself set timetables in iraq when he set timetables to have transitional elections in iraq .  he set timetables for elections because it focused the iraqis to demand performance , and that is what we should do in setting a timetable to transition to iraqis true sovereignty for three reasons .  reason number one , we should no longer provide a crutch for an indefinite period of time to the iraqi politicians .  we need to focus their minds on making the compromises that are necessary if a real government is going to be followed .  we can not fall into the trap of enabling iraqi politicians to continue their bickering .  they need a solution .  number two , people say a timetable will encourage more violence .  let me ask you this : if there is a young unemployed man who is angry about foreign troops marching on his neighborhood , what do you think will make him more angry and more likely to plant an ied , the fact that we tell him we are going to leave in a year or so , or tell him we are going to stay there as long as george bush says so ?  we need to tell them that we are going to come home .  the third reason we ought to think about this is that in our briefings we have received , we have been told that the iraqi military will be fully trained by next december 2006 , and it is realistic , it is commonsense , it is a measure to focus the iraqi politicians on the necessity of seeking compromise , to say that we should begin transitioning next year and substantially conclude by december 2006 .  during that time i have one message for the administration .  they need to do a better job arming the iraqi military forces .  they need radios , they need humvees , they need logistics .  we can not allow that force to fall apart .  we need to defeat this resolution .  