i thank the gentleman from new york for yielding me this time .  madam speaker , we have been here before .  congress has often resorted to bills and memoranda of understanding concerning china .  but the u.s. trade deficit with china has continued to increase .  so i am not going to stand here and argue process .  we can look at the history and the fact of the whole architecture of agreements that we have had with china , memoranda of understanding , concerns that members of congress from both sides of the aisle brought to this floor in order to try to manage united states trade with china .  remember we were told that a memorandum of understanding on prison labor with china would remove their competitive advantage and restore balanced trade .  but the u.s. trade deficit with china worsened .  remember the agreement to reaffirm the 1992 market access memorandum of understanding .  we passed that , but the u.s. trade deficit with china grew worse .  remember china 's agreement to lower tariffs on imports .  they cut the tariffs from 42 percent to 23 percent , then to 17 percent , then to 12 percent .  but the u.s. trade deficit with china got worse .  remember china stopped arbitrary limits on maintaining agricultural imports .  that was supposed to be a boon for the united states .  but the u.s. trade deficit with china got worse .  that is exactly the story that we see with nafta and the wto and , this week , cafta .  why does the u.s. trade deficit with china keep getting worse no matter what we do ?  no matter what our best intentions are ?  the u.s. trade deficit with china keeps getting worse because labor costs in china are so much cheaper .  hello ?  wake up , america .  we are giving away our jobs here , and the central issue is the cheap labor in china .  you can pass all of these agreements you want .  they are not going to amount to a hill of beans , because the fact of the matter is that the u.s. trade deficit in china will continue to grow , it will approach $ 200 billion , as long as the labor costs are cheaper .  that is why we are losing jobs .  that is why the trade deficit is growing .  that is why we are losing market share .  with all due respect to my good friend from pennsylvania , i do not see this bill amounting to anything .  vote against it .  