mr. speaker , the gig is up .  on both sides of the aisle , regardless of how trade bills , and this is trade day , i guess , on the floor of the house , regardless of how these bills go up or down , the american public knows who is exposing and who is extending and who is sending jobs overseas .  both parties .  we have had two administrations now that have given the store away , one democrat and one republican administration , and you come on this floor and want us to believe that you are going to pass this legislation and teach china a lesson .  i rise , and i rise to oppose this fig leaf , which is pathetic .  the majority is using this fig leaf to cover the growing crisis of our trade relationship with china years after the horse is out of the barn .  china is obviously not playing by the rules .  you tell me whether they are or they are not .  the american people want to know where you stand .  they want to know in your district where they stand .  it has nothing to do with democrat and republican .  the resulting imbalance is destroying family wage production jobs here in this united states .  this bill does not contain the answers .  it should be defeated again .  that it is even being considered on this floor to buy a few votes is an embarrassment to the house of representatives .  let us look at the facts .  let us look at the data .  our trade deficit with china is rapidly growing .  it reached $ 162 billion last year .  it was $ 16 billion in the month of may alone .  china is buying huge chunks of our nation 's growing debt .  do you know how much debt china owns of ours ?  is that not embarrassing enough ?  human rights abuses continue to be a problem in china .  people from both sides of the aisle have stated on the record what those abuses are .  they are not hidden .  they are exposed .  yet god knows what we do not know .  china continues its piracy of u.s. goods and products unabated .  unabated .  many factories in china still utilize child and prison labor .  we can not even get in to see what is going on in those factories .  china has only made a minor change in disconnecting its currency from the dollar .  another fig leaf .  it is on the front page of the financial times and the wall street journal and the new york times .  who are those trade people kidding ?  they are not kidding the american people at all .  our nation 's manufacturing sector and the manufacturing capability throughout the world is being decimated by china 's use of these low-wage , no-regulation , nonmarket conditions .  this free trade gig is up .  it is exposed .  just today , 9 : 30 this morning , i can report to the congress of the united states in new jersey where the u.s. chamber of commerce has said , we are going to gain all of these jobs from this trade , we are going to gain all of these jobs from cafta .  we did a survey of 180 small new jersey manufacturers .  one hundred four small manufacturing business owners told us they did not think cafta would have any impact on their business .  one-quarter of the entire sample told us that cafta would have a negative impact and lead to job losses , and they were willing to document it .  we will bring that up for another debate .  i ask you , taking such minor action today like this bill and the resolution condemning the unocal bid , ho-ho-ho .  and the majority thinks it can show american manufacturers and american workers that it is concerned about china at this stage ?  you are not fooling anybody .  this is a fig leaf , mr. speaker .  