mr. chairman , before i recognize my colleague from texas , i want to respond to a couple of points made by my other colleague from texas ; that is , comparing the strength of the three strikes and you 're out provisions in the substitute and base bill .  the three strikes language in the democratic substitute would apply to frivolous proceedings that are filed in any court .  the base bill , on the other hand , would apply the three strikes provision only to the specific court in which the violation occurred .  that is a narrower provision of the base bill .  similarly , my substitute provides for the referral to the appropriate state bars for disciplinary proceedings , including disbarment after the third strike .  with the first violation there is the required payment of costs and attorneys ' fees .  with the second , the attorney is held in contempt with a monetary fine .  and then the third provision of referral to the state bar for possible disbarment , compared to the base bill which calls for a 1-year suspension only in the specific court where the three violations occurred .  the violations have to occur in the same court .  if you move from one court where you are sanctioned to another to another , the base bill seems to have far less strength and applicability than the substitute .  second , i wanted to rebut the claim that the substitute will somehow promote litigation more than the base bill .  in fact , when you ask the judges who have operated under both systems , the one that is proposed by the base bill and the one that is proposed by the substitute , the courts were quite clear that the earlier form of rule 11 , which we would go back to in the base bill , spawned a cottage industry where someone would file a rule 11 motion , the opposing counsel would file a rule 11 motion on the rule 11 motion , and then you would have litigation over whose rule 11 motion should succeed .  in fact , in 1993 , the judicial conference remarked that the experience with the amended rule since 1993 , since we got away from what the base bill would take us back to , has demonstrated a marked decline to rule 11 satellite litigation without any noticeable increase in the number of frivolous filings .  