mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. speaker , we have a great rules package that is coming before us , a rules package which i believe is deserving of bipartisan support . 
the reason i say it is deserving of bipartisan support is that is the word that has been used by members on both sides of the aisle to describe exactly what we have been doing here and should be doing here . 
mr. speaker , this package includes a number of very important provisions . 
it allows us to deal with the prospect of a horrendous attack on this institution , and it allows us to continue this institution 's operations so the american people will understand that this institution stands even at a time of great crisis . 
this rules package allows for the establishment of a new permanent standing committee on homeland security , as the speaker outlined in his opening remarks here today . 
i believe that is something that will allow democrats and republicans to spend time working on that issue . 
mr. speaker , this is a rules package which allows for bipartisan process at the ethics committee level . 
the committee on standards of official conduct is the committee which has the responsibility of working to ensure the integrity of all of the members of this institution . 
the package we have before us does just that . 
i believe that the statement made by the chairman of the committee on standards of official conduct , the gentleman from colorado ( mr. hefley ) xz4001740 , is very clear . 
he understands that the provisions included in this package will in fact maintain the integrity of this institution . 
he was not going to support the earlier package ; he is supporting this package . 
the issue of bipartisanship is important because in this package we ensure that we will not see the politicization of the ethics process which tragically we have seen in the past , because it will require bipartisanship , which all members are talking about , if we do proceed with the investigatory process . 
that is the right thing to do , and i believe this package should in fact enjoy the support of democrats and republicans alike because it is designed to protect this institution and its members . 
mr. speaker , the house is an institution built upon its rules . 
accordingly , it is appropriate that one of the first orders of business of the 109th congress will be to adopt a rules package which is both true to its traditions and forward-thinking in its outlook . 
the package we have before us represents the work product of many members . 
during the initial stages of compiling this package , back in november , the rules committee received 40 difference proposals form both democrats and republicans . 
in addition , our committee staff has actively sought the input of the officers of the house , its committees , and its caucuses to get their perspectives on the kinds of changes we can make to facilitate the work of the house . 
while not every proposal we received was incorporated into this package , i assure you that each received substantial consideration by the speaker and the rules committee . 
and , as always , the rules committee will continue to review our rules and operations to see where other improvements can be made . 
mr. speaker , all of the ideals contained in this resolution reflect the considered judgment of our colleagues , and will ultimately improve our ability to carry out our constitutional responsibilities . 
while i will detail each of these changes in the section-by-section that i will place in the record , i want to elaborate on just a few of these changes . 
the gentlewoman from virginia ( mrs. jo ann davis ) is the author of one important provision directing committees to review matters within their jurisdiction to ferret out duplicative government programs as part of their oversight planning at the beginning of each congress . 
there are a number of instances where we are conforming the rules to reflect current house practice , such as with the designation of leadership members of the budget committee and the taking of recesses in committee to allow flexibility on our schedules . 
we are also making the ability to consider suspensions on wednesdays permanent in this congress after our successful experiment in the 108th congress . 
the package includes important provisions to allow us to function in situations where large numbers of members are incapacitated . 
the `` provisional quorum '' language includes a number of safeguards to ensure that this institution can continue to operate during times of turmoil and democracy will be preserved . 
as we search for permanent solutions to the problems facing us in the post-9/11 era , this is an important step in meeting our responsibilities . 
we will also eliminate the corrections calendar . 
while this was originally intended to make it easier to consider legislation making corrections to outright errors in law , it turned out to be more cumbersome than other procedures , such as consideration under suspension of the rules . 
and yes , mr. speaker , in a change guaranteed to draw applause from my colleagues , the house rules will now allow us to make reference to the senate and its members , so long as those references are confined to the question under debate and avoid personality . 
the senate has long had similar provisions and this new rule merely conforms our rules to theirs . 
i know that my colleagues and i share the desire to maintain our traditions of dignity and decorum in proceedings , and will do so even with this rules change . 
on another topic , the package makes a series of changes to our ethics rules . 
we included two provisions suggested by the chairman and ranking member of the standards committee : ( 1 ) clarifying the rule on officially connected travel to allow a family member other than a spouse or child to travel with the member at the sponsor 's expense , and ( 2 ) conforming the rules of the house to current law which allow the use of campaign funds to pay for certain official expenses , such as a cellphone . 
we also included provision suggested by the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. larson ) to conform the rules of the house to current law with regard to the 90-day pre-election limit on franked mail . 
the package also includes two other provisions addressing our ethics rules . 
the first gives members the same rights to choose their counsel before the ethics committee that they would enjoy if they were a respondent in a court case . 
the second change addresses an inequity in the standards committee process requiring an investigative subcommittee if the chairman and ranking member do n't act within 45 days . 
this change restores the presumption of innocence in our process . 
as important as each of those changes are , mr. speaker , perhaps the most important change in this resolution will be the creation of a new standing committee on homeland security . 
it represents a far-reaching and critically important part of our overall strategic effort to protect the american people . 
the 9/11 commission unanimously called for this action . 
they saw the need , and we believe most members do , too . 
over the past 3 years , the congress has asked the american people to accept change in countless ways . 
we have mandated change at the federal , state , and local levels . 
we have asked for change from our allies and forced change upon our enemies . 
and we saw the need for change over 2 years ago , and we responded , first with the enactment of the homeland security act of 2002 , and then with the formation of the select committee on homeland security . 
their final report , a thorough and complete study of homeland security jurisdiction as it relates to house rules , was transmitted to my committee at the end of last year . 
these measures made it clear to me and many other members that steps need to be taken to further ensure the safety of the american people . 
the rules committee thoroughly reviewed the select committee 's report and recommended a comprehensive and thoughtful reform effort that mirrors the recommendations of the 9/11 commission : the formation of a permanent committee on homeland security . 
this change in house rule x , which governs the committee and their legislative jurisdictions , is delicately crafted architecture . 
it draws to the new committee only jurisdiction directly related to our defense against terrorism . 
thus , it creates a primary committee while recognizing the other legitimate oversight roles of existing committees . 
it acknowledges the expertise and experience residing in other committees and leaves with them jurisdiction that may have a homeland security implication but not a direct policy relationship . 
the house must have one central point where we , as national legislators , sort out the critical questions of securing our homeland without sacrificing our free society or a stable economy . 
however , we envision a system of `` purposeful redundancy. '' by that we mean more than one level of oversight and an atmosphere in which the competition of ideas is encouraged . 
with this jurisdiction and the legislative history that i will place in the record , the department of homeland security will have more certainty as to which committee has the primary responsibility for homeland security . 
at the same time , the american people will live with the assurance that we are working to prevent anything from falling through the cracks . 
mr. speaker , the new committee will have jurisdiction over : ( 1 ) overall homeland security policy ; ( 2 ) the organization and administration of the department of homeland security ; and ( 3 ) functions of the department of homeland security relating to border and port security ( except immigration policy and non-border enforcement ) , customs ( except customs revenue ) , the integration , analysis , and dissemination of homeland security information , domestic preparedness for and collective response to terrorism , research and development , and transportation security . 
by approving this resolution , the house will do what the speaker and the 9/11 commission has asked it to do : consolidate jurisdiction of the house in one committee . 
this committee will be dedicated to setting national homeland security policy and to effectively overseeing that the department of homeland security carries out its mission . 
mr. speaker , in making these changes , i want to note several points for the record . 
first , referrals to the select committee on homeland security in the 108th congress will not be considered a precedent for referrals in the 109th congress . 
second , at the request of mr. thomas , i am placing a document into the record regarding understandings between the department of treasury and the department of homeland security . 
third , because the department continues to evolve , references to a department , agency , bureau , office , or subdivision include a reference to successor entities to the extent that the successor engages in homeland security activities now conducted by the department , agency , bureau , office , or subdivision referred to in the legislative history . 
for example , the homeland security act of 2002 transferred the office of domestic preparedness to the department of homeland security , to `` have the primary responsibility within the executive branch of government for preparedness of the u.s. for acts of terrorism. '' subsequently , its name has been changed by the department to `` office of state and local government coordination and preparedness ( slgcp ) '' although its mission stays the same . 
finally , i welcome questions from my colleagues about jurisdictional matters related to this change . 
however , i want to caution all members that referrals are solely within the speaker 's power , and , in my answers , i will not infringe upon the power . 
once again , i appreciate the input from all of you regarding the 109th rules package , and i feel that with your assistance , we will make the rules of the house stronger and make for a safer country . 
