mr. speaker , i thank the distinguished gentlewoman because ethics equals integrity . 
i will submit my statement into the record . 
vote a resounding no on the resolution that is on the floor , and i hope that we will come before our peers and recognize that ethics equals integrity . 
mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the proposed changes to the house rules under the privileged resolution before the committee of the whole house . 
taken together , this package of proposals will gut the house rules . 
our colleagues on the other side of the aisle would like to completely gut and render ineffective the current rule xi , which provides that a properly filed ethics complaint that has not been addressed by the chair and ranking member of the ethics committee gets referred to an investigative committee . 
the republican proposal would provide that , unless the committee votes by majority to take action on a properly filed complaint , no action will be taken after 45 days . 
this change to rule xi would take away an important oversight power and allow partisan politics to kill legitimate and colorable ethics complaints . 
a change like this would be an embarrassment to what this nation calls a `` democracy. '' furthermore , by allowing members to intentionally deadlock the vote of the ethics committee to kill a claim , we would be acting in contravention of the spirit of the u.s. constitution that guarantees procedural due process . 
we should strengthen the house ethnics rules rather than eviscerate them for the american people whom we represent . 
rules so relaxed that members can negotiate with a corporation , lobbying firm , or trade association that has business before their committee should not be further stripped . 
the honor that was bestowed upon this house upon its establishment must be maintained . 
members must be held accountable for their action . 
moreover , members should be given adequate time in which to read legislation that will be voted upon . 
since the legislation that we pass in this august body affects the entire nation -- which includes the districts represented by minority members , it is an injustice that insufficient time has been given for review of legislation . 
in the proposal that has been brought before the house does not contain the changes that are needed . 
it would be irresponsible for this body to accept what is before us . 
the proposed rule x amendment to create a standing committee on homeland security , on the other hand , is a smart one . 
it is only appropriate that this committee be made permanent and be given jurisdiction over `` overall homeland security policy. '' important organizational and admnistrative aspects of the department of homeland security , dhs , require oversight to ensure effective and efficient operation . 
dhs is a conglomeration of 22 federal agencies with more than 180 , 000 employees and a budget of $ 36 billion . 
because the department is still in its infancy stages , it is critical that committee oversight be applied to track and quickly eradicate deficiencies . 
the congress has just passed the national intelligence reform act , or s. 2845 , that will change the way our intelligence is collected and processed . 
dhs will be an important partner to our intelligence agencies in order to keep america safe . 
in addition , with the challenges that we have had with adequately funding first responders , it is very important that congress retain a close relationship to the department . 
mr. speaker , i oppose the rules package that is before this body , and i urge my colleagues to defeat it . 
i yield the balance of my time . 
further , a rules change that changes the quorum for this body without a constitutional change is minimally undermining our constitutional values . 
vote `` no '' on this resolution and `` yea '' on the motion to recommitt . 
