mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , and i will be glad to yield further in a moment , it typically has not worked that way . 
typically , the way you do it is , somebody comes to you with the idea , maybe it is a thomas edison or somebody of that ilk , of that nature , and you generally will then go to your leadership or to the leadership on the other side or to the chairman of the committee and say , look , i am interested in getting this done . 
if i am going to go out and get the 290 signatures , i want some idea that it is going to be considered . 
i would be dumbfounded if you had five on one side and five on the other . 
in fact , i would be dumbfounded if you had two on one side and two on the other . 
you generally sort of pre-clear it ; and , generally speaking , politics has just not entered into it . 
before you go through all that effort and work , you want to get a pretty good idea that the bill is going to be able to get at least through the house . 
then , by the way , getting it through the senate is another whole other issue that you have to deal with as well . 
so , typically , we have not had a surplus of these . 
generally speaking , when we have gotten to the 290 , it has already been pretty well agreed upon by leadership . 
as the gentleman knows , on commemorative coins , they can be done in out years . 
we are doing coins already for 2007 and years beyond that , i believe , at this point . 
but almost always you work it out in advance . 
as the gentleman knows from our committee work , i do not know of any time where we have actually had to pick and choose at the committee on these coins . 
it is almost always worked out in advance and agreed upon . 
mr. chairman , i truly do not worry about this from a political point of view . 
i really do not think this is a necessary amendment to deal with that , based on what i have seen . 
i do not think limiting it to two is going to change that at all . 
i certainly would support the best people , which is what we are trying to do . 
frankly , most of these bills , while there may be a democrat sponsor or a republican sponsor , almost always has a cosponsor from the other side . 
you can not really do it without sponsors from both sides . 
so there is much more bipartisanship in this process than almost anything i know about in this congress . 
