mr. chairman , if the gentleman will yield further , i do not mean to reiterate or repeat too much . 
looking at the history of these congressional gold medals , though , i think is very telling in terms of what we are doing because the history has always been to individuals for outstanding achievement . 
so in terms of the groups , i really think we should honor that . 
that is not disrespectful of any group that has gotten it or all the other groups who are potentially eligible out there if you use them in that criteria of measurement . 
but the other issue is interesting , and that is how many of these should we be able to have ? 
first of all , the history of the gold medal has been very bipartisan . 
i think , as we all know , when we are dealing with that many signatures , it is going to be bipartisan . 
there is no question about that . 
but my sense is that the two a year is not as limiting as one might think when you really again look at the history of this . 
in fact , if anything , it would be an expansion over what the total history of it has been . 
by the time you go through a legislative session and you gather 290 signatures and you go through committee and you go to the floor , and i have handled these bills , they often happen the last day , by the way , so it is always very confusing in terms of what we are doing , i think you are going to find this is not as limiting as one might think . 
again , i recognize the fact that it is a bigger country , that there is much more going on in the country and that kind of thing , but we are really trying to make sure that this is truly an honor for somebody who does something extraordinary in science or the arts , or an elected official or somebody of that nature , usually a president , i think the only elected official who has ever been honored ; people in religion , people who have just absolutely stood out in their circumstances . 
my sense is while we can argue here on the floor that it is limiting , i think the bottom line is it is not going to end up being as limiting as one might think . 
hopefully it would not be . 
obviously if that happened to be the case , it is something that could always be revisited , but i just do not think it is going to be the case . 
i believe that straightening this out is actually going to make these gold medals much more of a distinction than perhaps they would be if we allowed this to continue , particularly with the commemorative coin changes , increasing the pressure to try to do so many of these . 
