i thank my good friend for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , i rise today in support of equal campus access for our military recruiters . 
recently , a group calling itself freedom for academic and institutional rights , fair , has decided that they disagree with what our military stands for ; and , because of this , they have decided that the military no longer deserves access to our nation 's institutions of higher learning . 
they claim that granting military recruiters equal access to campuses would promote only a pro-military viewpoint and a pro-military recruiting message . 
this is simply not true . 
the government is not asking campuses across america to endorse the war on terror , the president 's policy or anything to do with the military . 
all we are asking for is that the military be afforded the exact same access as other organizations to the student body . 
that is it . 
that is all . 
those who argue that giving equal access somehow constitutes an endorsement of the military are just plain wrong . 
does giving equal access to other groups mean that each institution agrees with every idea that that organization may have ? 
of course not . 
i really think it is ridiculous to argue that point , but fair is arguing just that . 
it is in everyone 's interest to ensure that young people receive information , including military options , so they can make informed choices about their future after they finish their education . 
just because a school disagrees with a career in the military , does that give them the right to deny information about that particular career to someone who might want to sign up ? 
is it right to deny access because you disagree with what someone says ? 
how is that in keeping with the first amendment to the constitution ? 
the position that fair and others have taken is nothing more than thinly veiled hypocrisy . 
they are masking their obvious hatred of our nation 's military by hiding behind the first amendment . 
i think it is wrong . 
i am not going to sit idly by while this so-called fair group trashes our military . 
the constitution in article 1 , section 8 , states that congress shall have the power to raise and support armies , provide and maintain a navy and make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces . 
it does not say that activist judges and institutions of higher education have the right to prevent congress from going about its duty to raise and support the armed forces of these united states . 
were the members of the fair not aware that we were at war and that a state of national emergency has existed in this country since september 11 of 2001 ? 
i am sure they are happy to enjoy the rights afforded to them by the first amendment , but who allows them those rights ? 
perhaps they should reread the old poem to a soldier : `` it is the soldier , not the reporter , who has given us freedom of the press . 
`` it is the soldier , not the poet , who has given us freedom of speech . 
`` it is the soldier , not the campus organizer , who gives us freedom to demonstrate . 
`` it is the soldier who salutes the flag , who serves beneath the flag and whose coffin is draped by the flag who allows the protester to burn the flag. '' i urge all my colleagues to support this resolution to ensure that the military of these united states continues to have equal access to our nation 's finest young men and women . 
