i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , i am proud to stand here in support of this resolution , a very important resolution introduced by the gentleman from alabama ( mr. rogers ) xz4003411 . 
i think we are at a critical period of time in this nation 's history , and it comes a couple of days after one of the more significant , what you would call victories or symbols of what the american military presence is about and what its results are . 
that is , that we pride ourselves in having the best educated , the best trained , the best quality of people serving in all sorts of branches , in all sorts of jobs in the united states military ; and at a time when the world needs this the most from us , it is very important that we maintain that quality . 
i heard the prior speaker talk about the fact that this may be a dangerous place and there are all sorts of other political ideas that may be at play where you could put a recruiter on a campus or not . 
what i would simply say is that that is not the same argument as here . 
this is an argument of fairness and equity . 
it is an argument that says that just because somebody 's political philosophy is counter to the idea that we want to have a strong military presence in this nation , those school administrators , who i think are way off the board in terms of their left-wing views and their antimilitary approach , ought not to be able to ban college military recruiters from doing their job because it is in the national interest that we do it . 
it is really in the world 's interest . 
so i am here to support this resolution and say that what the third circuit did last november again represents the judiciary trying to legislate where it ought not to do it . 
my predecessor , gerry solomon , first introduced this amendment many years back . 
it was that amendment that has been struck down . 
i strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this resolution and recognizing that what we do for the private sector in allowing them to put recruiters in law schools or on any college campus ought to be the same that we do for something so important and so critical as the recruitment of the best and the brightest into our military forces . 
i urge all of my colleagues to strongly support this resolution . 
