mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
i have been watching this debate all morning , and i am really concerned about what is happening here on the floor of the house of representatives . 
i have never heard so much misstatement of fact about a piece of legislation that is very important . 
the problem is , this legislation never had a hearing in committee , never had public review . 
we have never looked at the language ; i doubt that any members have read the bill in its entirety . 
that is not what this house is all about , because this law is a very , very serious law , and it is going to affect people 's lives . 
i have heard statements here on the floor that the recommendations in this bill are in the 9/11 commission . 
let me give an example . 
section 102 , which deals with the border fence , the commission never even mentioned the border fence . 
why ? 
because it is not a problem . 
we have been building it . 
what we have run into is a couple of environmental snags . 
so what does this bill do ? 
it says okay , waive all that . 
waive the law . 
this is a precedent that has never been done before in the united states congress . 
waive all laws , whether those laws pertain to indian burial grounds , whether they are labor laws , discrimination laws , small business laws , environmental laws . 
we will just waive them . 
and guess what , no court , as it says , `` no court shall have jurisdiction. '' what kind of a measure is this ? 
do we just run into problems and we come to the floor of congress and say , just get rid of the law ? 
here is a country that celebrated the tearing down of the berlin wall , a country that celebrated the elections in iraq so people will have the rule of law ; and then when we have the rule of law , we just waive it . 
there was no request from the state of california for this bill . 
mexico , our biggest trade partner , nothing like this ; and what we are saying to the world is , do not worry , we are just going to cram through everything and forget the law . 
this is wrong , and i am going to have an amendment on the floor tomorrow to repeal it . 
i hope everyone votes for it . 
