mr. chairman , clearly this amendment has good intentions , and i think it is important to note that the amendment would require the secretary of homeland security to enter into an aviation security database the name and other information about people who have been convicted of using a false driver 's license for the purpose of boarding an airplane . 
the objective of this amendment is to enhance our ability to track and detect potential security threats , and as i indicated , i support the objective . 
i think it is a good idea to require the secretary of the department of homeland security to have information in his database about people who have been convicted of using a false driver 's license . 
but as they all say , the devil is in the details . 
again , the same predicament or affliction that impacted the amendment of the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions ) xz4003670 impacts this . 
where is the hearing ? 
where is the oversight ? 
where is the impact that will occur ? 
do these also include individuals who mistakenly have such a driver 's license , if that may be the case , and where is the basis for it ? 
i was just looking at a letter from commissioner hamilton , who talked about controversial provisions that everyone suggests came out of the 9/11 commission , and what he said very carefully was that these are , in fact , recommendations . 
as the intelligence bill did in the last session with enormous vetting , hearings , oversight , conference committees at the later stage , it almost became a hearing , none of these amendments have been given the kind of vetting that one would know that these are valuable and that the details have been worked out as to how we utilize the database or who gets into the database if , by chance , the utilization was a mistake even though they violated the law . 
so you create this enormous database that has those who potentially would do us harm , but others , unfortunately , that got themselves into the criminal justice system . 
we hope , however , that this amendment will send notice to those who might try to use any false document in trying to get on an airplane for the potential damage it may do . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the amendment that my colleague congressman castle has offered . 
this amendment would require the secretary of homeland security to enter into an aviation security database the name and other information about people who have been convicted of using a false driver 's license for the purpose of boarding an airplane . 
the objective of this amendment is to enhance our ability to track and detect potential security threats . 
i support this objective , and i think it is a good idea to require the secretary of homeland security to have information in his data bases about people who have been convicted of using a false driver 's license . 
as they say , however , `` the devil is in the details. '' i would like a hearing and a markup on this amendment before deciding whether it should be enacted . 
i urge you to vote against the castle amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
