mr. speaker , i rise in reluctant support of h.r. 1268 , the war supplemental appropriations bill for fiscal year 2005 , which will provide funding for military operations and reconstruction activities in iraq and afghanistan , as well as important funds for tsunami relief and recovery . 
i say `` reluctant support '' because the republican leadership has made a very poor and political decision to include controversial legislative provisions in this emergency spending bill that otherwise enjoys almost universal support because it provides needed assistance for our servicemen and women overseas . 
it goes without saying , mr. speaker , that our servicemen and women deserve to have the equipment and support they need to help keep them safe as they fulfill their missions abroad . 
towards that end , the appropriations committee increased funding by 69 percent above the president 's request for add-on vehicle armor kits , new trucks , and radio jammers to disrupt attempts by iraqi insurgents to explode remote controlled bombs and mines . 
the bill also includes important provisions to increase the military death gratuity and to provide subsidized life insurance benefits for families of soldiers who die or are killed on active duty . 
no amount can compensate for the tragic death of a loved one , but an increase in these benefits can help a family cope with the financial impact of a combat death . 
i am also pleased that additional funds have been provided for humanitarian relief and disaster assistance , including $ 400 million for sudan , $ 907 million for indian ocean tsunami relief , and $ 240 million in p.l . 
480 grants for emergency food assistance . 
but i am extremely upset and disappointed that the republican leadership is using this critical bill as a vehicle to pass unrelated and controversial policies , that will allow the department of homeland security to preempt state and federal laws to build border fences , require uniform national standards for issuing driver 's licenses , and change the asylum standards for immigrants seeking to flee to the united states to avoid persecution . 
in particular , the bill includes an assault against the matricula consular cards issued by mexican and other latin american consulates , and consequently makes it an assault on our immigrant families who rely upon this form of identification in their daily lives for transactions involving banking , housing , education and even proving , when necessary , that they are the parents of their own children . 
these provisions why does the republican leadership continue to abuse its power and shut out the american public ? 
because the republican leadership knows that if these controversial provisions were openly debated in the house and senate they would not pass . 
only by attaching these provisions to a must-pass bill like the emergency supplemental appropriations bill for our troops in iraq could they hope to be successful . 
mr. speaker , this is just one more example of abuse of power by a republican leadership that continues to act irresponsibly on issues of importance to our american society . 
nevertheless , in spite of my concerns , given the choice before us , i believe it is my responsibility to provide our servicemen and women the resources necessary for them to fulfill their mission and come home safely . 
protecting our troops , who are sacrificing so much on our behalf , and providing for their families , will always be one of my highest priorities , and that is why , once again , i will support this necessary and important conference report today . 
