mr. chairman , this bill is filled with many worthwhile expenditures , and i have heard my colleagues all day make various adjustments and amendments . 
however , the overwhelming amount of this appropriation will be wasted in the continuing financing of the war in iraq . 
the war in iraq is an expensive blunder with costs now approaching the level of $ 300 billion . 
in the name of security , we are throwing dollars at a problem which will yield the least amount of security here in the homeland . 
we are left vulnerable within our own borders , while there is no honest accounting for billions which could make our ports safer , which could increase our first response capacities , which could train expert translators , anti-demolition experts , communications personnel and many others that are vital for maximum homeland security . 
in general , our federal expenditures for education , including school construction and modernization , could be increased greatly in order to guarantee that america has the most valuable ingredient to secure its future , that is , an educated population . 
nothing is more vital for the existence of this nation than an educated populace . 
we neglect these vital needs while we continue to throw dollars into a bottomless pit . 
this present appropriation might be justified if there were a timetable and a clear plan for withdrawal . 
through the election process , the iraqi people let it be known that they reject the suicide bombers . 
the iraqi people reject the fanatics and the zealots . 
the iraqi people reject the extremists . 
the extremists can be isolated and paralyzed if we build on this goodwill and desire for freedom among the iraqi people . 
they demonstrated that in the election in which they went out to participate . 
to build on this foundation , we must offer the iraqi people justice . 
justice means a plan to show them how their oil revenue ought to be used to help their economy , and justice means a clear timetable for the withdrawal of american troops . 
we must strengthen the partnership with the iraqi people . 
let us stop the waste of dollars and stop the waste of lives of american heroes . 
we can not continue to dig blindly down into this deep pit of more war . 
i would like to close with a quotation which i hope all of my colleagues will allow to settle on their minds for a few minutes : `` voice or no voice , the people can always be brought to the bidding of the leaders . 
that is easy . 
all you have to do is tell them they are being attacked , and denounce the pacifists for lack of patriotism and exposing their country to danger . 
it works the same in any country. '' that quote was from air marshall herman goering . 
i urge a `` no '' vote on this entire appropriation bill which is mostly for the continuation of the war in iraq . 
