mr. chairman , i move to strike the requisite number of words . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the tierney amendment . 
this is a lot of money we are talking about . 
as the late everett dirksen said , a billion here , a billion there , pretty soon you have got some real money . 
we are talking about $ 200 billion . 
and we all support our warfighters . 
we support our men and women in uniform , but we should not throw money at any problem . 
and all this amendment asks is that we copy the truman commission where a democratic senator investigated a democratic president . 
this should not be a partisan issue at all . 
both parties should unite . 
and i congratulate the gentleman from iowa ( mr. leach ) xz4002360 for his strong work in this worthy effort . 
republicans should want a real-time bipartisan look at what is really going on . 
i had the good fortune of being in baghdad last christmas . 
our c-130 was broken , so we spent a little extra time at the baghdad airport . 
a shipment came in that our military did not want us to see . 
but i had my video camera handy , and i took pictures . 
what was it ? 
six large pallets , off-loaded from u.s. aircraft , beautifully packaged , you could tell , lots of small boxes on each pallet , very heavy to lift . 
what was in those boxes ? 
answer , $ 1.4 billion , billion with a b as in `` boy , '' $ 1.4 billion of u.s. currency shipped in allegedly to replenish the iraqi central bank . 
well , i hope and pray that was true . 
but when our own paul bremer says he really can not account for $ 9 billion of money , when eyewitnesses see 300 million in u.s. cash being flown out of the country , allegedly to buy arms for the good guys , you have got to wonder . 
all we are asking for here is accountability . 
and i want to pay special tribute to my friend , the gentleman from california ( mr. thompson ) xz4004032 , a leading member of the blue dog coalition . 
what we want is accountability . 
we are fiscal and defense hawks , but we need to know where the money goes . 
the taxpayers of this country deserve no less . 
this is as far from a partisan issue as you can get . 
all we want is accountability because catching fraud , waste , and abuse is the most bipartisan of issues . 
so i congratulate my friend , the gentleman from california ( mr. thompson ) xz4004032 , also the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. tierney ) xz4004070 . 
this needs to be in the bill because these supplementals , they are becoming a habit , guys . 
every year we are going to have a major supplemental . 
and it is high time that we find out where the money went . 
support the tierney amendment . 
