mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from california for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , i thank him for his hard work on this conference report . 
as many in this chamber know , this conference report contains the provisions of the real id act , which i offered , and the house overwhelmingly approved earlier this year . 
the sensible reforms contained in this legislation are long overdue and will make america safer . 
these provisions will hamper the ability of terrorists and criminal aliens to move freely through our society by requiring that all states ' prior proof of lawful presence in the u.s. for their driver 's licenses be accepted as identification for federal purposes , such as boarding a commercial airplane , entering a federal building or a nuclear power plant . 
this legislation will also require a temporary driver 's license issued to a foreign visitor to expire when their visa expires , with the maximum term of 1 year . 
the legislation will also prevent the ability of potentially dangerous aliens to show up under false pretenses on our shores and be granted safe haven , while simultaneously protecting those who are legitimately fleeing persecution . 
finally , the legislation will also ensure that the security and integrity of our border is not imperiled by endless and frivolous litigation . 
i would also note that there are several immigration-related provisions included in the report by the other body that enjoy broad support from this house . 
one will provide that aliens who have received h-2b visas issued to work in temporary or seasonal jobs in any of the last 3 years shall not be counted toward the 2005 or 2006 quotes when applying for an h-2b visa during the next 2 years . 
another amendment expands immigrant visas available for aliens who serve as nurses or physical therapists . 
i wish to thank the house leadership , the white house , and many members of both chambers who rightly recognized the importance of the real id act and supported its inclusion in this conference report . 
