mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 1/2 minutes . 
mr. chairman , i offer this amendment with the gentlewoman from north carolina ( mrs. myrick ) xz4002880 and the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind ) xz4002180 in a bipartisan amendment for two main reasons : the first is cost . 
what this amendment does , it says that none of the funds made available in this act may be used for embassy security , construction and maintenance . 
in essence it is about a $ 592 million savings amendment . 
i would note in a crs document printed a couple of weeks ago , it states that the state department has identified $ 990 million thus far for the new embassy in baghdad . 
fiscal year 2003 and fiscal year 2004 supplementals provided $ 35 million from the state 's diplomatic and consular program account , another $ 105 million came from the fourth quarter fiscal year 2004 coalition provisional authority appropriations , and another $ 184 million of the iraqi relief and reconstruction funds was designated for the embassy . 
this bill provides yet another some $ 590 million for this building . 
the second reason that i support the amendment and oppose this provision in the bill is that we knew years ago that we were going to need a new embassy , and yet last summer when plans were laid for construction of this particular site it was not included in the omnibus appropriation bill taken up in november . 
the 2006 budget request which came up in february , no moneys were included in the president 's budget request for that as well . 
i would note that the national taxpayers union supports this amendment . 
i would also note that time and time again i supported more support for our troops , body armor , supported the president 's request , but this embassy stuck into this bill with this process is not right . 
we need regular order and that is why the gentlewoman from north carolina ( mrs. myrick ) xz4002880 and the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. kind ) xz4002180 and i are offering this amendment on a bipartisan basis . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
