mr. chairman , several provisions in this legislation are of particular interest to the committee on homeland security . 
first , this spending bill will be procedurally consolidated with the real id act , which the house approved 261-161 on february 10 , 2005 . 
we can not effectively fight terrorism if we can not verify the identity of people boarding airplanes , entering nuclear power plants , visiting the white house , or gaining access to any of the countless places a terrorist could use as a stage to multiply the effect of an attack . 
accurate identification of individuals before permitting them access to critical infrastructure is a prerequisite to success . 
the failure to ensure the integrity of identification documents that can be legally used to access critical infrastructure means that the entire process of checking ids is deeply flawed . 
likewise , the time and effort of every law abiding citizen who waits in seemingly endless lines , first to obtain and then to present identification , is wasted . 
document fraud is a crime against all americans who must tolerate the indignity of life in a post-9/11 world . 
why must honest americans prove who we are , again and again , if terrorists and criminals are free to make a hash of this requirement ? 
five weeks ago , the house approved the real id act , just as we did in the 108th congress . 
in so doing , we responded to the challenge put before us by mir aimal kansi , who slaughtered five people at cia headquarters ; by ramzi yousef , who masterminded the first world trade center attack ; and by several of the 9/11 hijackers who would have found it far more difficult , if not impossible , to carry out their terror attacks had we prevented them from using false identification . 
this spending bill also contains funding to secure our borders . 
to secure our nation from nuclear attack , the legislation includes $ 55 million to detect nuclear material at foreign ports . 
the megaports initiative is designed to interdict illicit traffic in nuclear and other radioactive materials . 
by surveilling container shipping at high volume , high risk overseas ports , and by deploying radiation detection devices at our own ports of entry , america 's counter-terrorism strategy can succeed in a comprehensive defense of the global supply chain . 
this bill also provides $ 38.97 million for the terrorist screening center . 
this multi-agency homeland security effort is responsible for supporting the department of homeland security 's effort to screen passengers on both domestic and international flights . 
this new funding will help the tsc to handle new requirements , such as the department of homeland security 's secure flight program . 
