mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word . 
mr. chairman , i rise to support the gentleman 's amendment . 
as the gentleman has made quite clear , this is his second choice . 
he would prefer to offer an amendment which directly establishes a truman-like committee to investigate profiteering in iraq . 
the fact is that the majority has chosen to use the technicalities of the rules to prevent that from happening . 
given the fact that they have done that , the gentleman 's only choice is to proceed in the manner he has proceeded in the amendment he has just offered . 
it seems to me that the purpose of the amendment is clear . 
the purpose is to see to it that a committee is formed which will have as its sole responsibility the reviewing of the use and misuse of taxpayer funds in iraq . 
this bill seems to me to be a perfectly appropriate vehicle to accomplish the end that the gentleman seeks . 
this bill appropriates over $ 80 billion of taxpayer money . 
i think the taxpayers , many of whom have substantial doubt , not just about the war but about the conduct of some of the contractors during and after the war , i think the taxpayers would like to know that if we are going into their pockets for an additional $ 80 billion today , at least we are doing the utmost possible to see to it that that $ 80 billion is spent in accordance with the law and is spent in accordance with good judgment . 
i , for the life of me , do not understand what the problem is with the gentleman 's efforts . 
it seems to me if this congress is looking for ways to achieve the maximum support for the administration 's policy , they would certainly support efforts to see to it that that policy is being conducted in such a manner that embarrassment is not eventually brought to the president , to this congress and to our effort in the country and in the region . 
so while this certainly is not our preferred solution , it is far better than doing nothing and i would urge support for the gentleman 's amendment . 
