mr. speaker , first of all , i want to congratulate the chairman of the full committee on this , his maiden effort , to bring a major supplemental appropriation to the floor as chairman , and i congratulate him for the leadership that he has shown in bringing this so swiftly to this floor . 
i do rise in support of the conference report to h.r. 1268 . 
before i address the funding that is the responsibility of my subcommittee , i want to briefly acknowledge a critically important part of this bill , border security funding . 
the securing of our nation 's borders to prevent the hemorrhaging flow of illegal immigration through my state of arizona has got to be a top priority for the federal government . 
the people i represent living on the border are frustrated with the illegal immigration system , and we must address gaps in border security now . 
arizona and other border states can no longer serve as the back door for this country 's broken immigration system . 
by adding the funding that we do in this bill , we are taking a step in the right direction to ensure our northern and southern borders are protected . 
regarding the foreign operations , export financing , and related programs subcommittee chapter of this legislation , the conference report includes $ 2.53 billion in funding for programs under the jurisdiction of the foreign operations , export financing , and related programs subcommittee , which i chair . 
while this overall level is $ 1.4 billion less than requested , let me say once again i strongly support the objectives of the president that he seeks to achieve with this request for afghanistan , the middle east , and the tsunami-devastated areas of asia . 
i believe that this conference agreement provides the financial support necessary to help the united states achieve these objectives . 
the major elements of the conference agreement that differ from the house-passed levels are additional funds for afghanistan reconstruction , the solidarity initiative , and support for ukraine . 
the $ 739 million proposed by the house for afghanistan reconstruction represented the highest priority projects that could be implemented and executed during 2005 . 
the senate provided $ 1.3 billion , the administration 's request . 
and the conference level is $ 1.086 billion , or $ 347 million over what the house had recommended . 
this increase over the house level supports some 2006 requirements , which is , i believe , a cost-effective approach to the 2006 budget process . 
the house provided no funding for the administration 's $ 400 million solidarity initiative . 
the senate provide a total of $ 225.5 million , $ 200 million in the solidarity fund and $ 25.5 million in the global war on terror partners fund . 
the conference agreement provides a total of $ 230 million , merging the two funds into one appropriation , and places these funds within peacekeeping operations appropriations . 
this arrangement provides for regular order congressional review of the department 's plans for these funds . 
the conference agreement provides $ 60 million for ukraine , and these funds will support the government of ukraine 's highest priorities for political and economic reform , including anti-corruption initiatives and support for the upcoming parliamentary elections . 
i think my colleagues recognize that we are faced with unique opportunities in the middle east and afghanistan . 
this agreement will provide the financial resources necessary to promote democracy and provide the state department with programs and projects to support these positive influences . 
let me say that the funds we are providing in the foreign assistance chapter must be considered an investment in security both in the region and on american soil . 
however , congress has the responsibility to ensure that taxpayer dollars are used efficiently and transparently , and we take that responsibility seriously with reporting requirements , and we will continue vigorous oversight of these programs . 
the greatest weight all of us must bear is the knowledge that these decisions we make directly put the lives of americans at risk . 
i firmly believe the bill before us today will help build stability and freedom in afghanistan , the middle east , and parts of asia . 
i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on the fiscal year 2005 emergency supplemental conference report on h.r. 1268 . 
i rise in support of the conference report to h.r. 1268 , a bill making emergency supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2005 . 
before i address the funding in my subcommittee , i wanted to briefly acknowledge a critically important part of this bill -- border security funding . 
the securing of our nation 's borders to prevent the hemorrhaging flow of illegal immigration through my state of arizona must be a top priority for the federal government . 
the people i represent living on the border are frustrated with the illegal immigration system , and we must address gaps in border security now . 
arizona and other border states can no longer serve as the backdoor for this country 's broken immigration system . 
by adding this funding we are taking a step in the right direction to ensure our northern and southern borders are protected . 
i am pleased that my colleagues on the conference committee agreed to provide $ 635 million for border security to hire an additional 500 border patrol agents , 50 additional criminal investigators , 168 immigration enforcement agents and deportation officers , and to fund 1 , 950 additional detention beds . 
the bill also includes my amendment to strengthen the real id act to address the technology , equipment , and personnel needs improving security within the u.s. , requiring department of homeland security to carry out an improved ground surveillance program , and requiring dhs to improve interagency communication . 
regarding the foreign operations subcommittee chapter , the conference agreement includes $ 2.532 billion , in funding for programs under the jurisdiction of the foreign operations subcommittee of which i am chairman . 
this amount is $ 685 million over the house level , $ 251 million less than the senate level , and $ 1.4 billion less than the administration 's request . 
while this overall level is $ 1.4 billion less than requested , let me say once again that i strongly support the objectives the president seeks to achieve with this request for afghanistan , the middle east , and the tsunami devastated areas of asia . 
i believe that , with the understanding that we need to reduce our federal deficit , this conference agreement provides the financial support necessary to help the united states achieve these objectives . 
the major elements of the conference agreement that differ from the house passed-level are : additional funds for afghanistan reconstruction , the solidarity initiative , and support for ukraine . 
the $ 739 million proposed by the house for afghanistan reconstruction , represented the highest priority projects that could be implemented and executed during 2005 . 
the senate provided $ 1.3 billion , the administration 's request . 
the conference level is $ 1.086 billion , $ 347 million over the house recommendation . 
the increase over the house level supports some 2006 requirements -- a cost effective approach to the 2006 budget process -- such as $ 101.4 million for two additional power plants , $ 8.4 million for a water pipeline , $ 72 million for additional roads and infrastructure , and $ 43 million for economic governance . 
the house provided no funding for the administration 's $ 400 million `` solidarity initiative. '' the solidarity initiative request of $ 400 million for two $ 200 million funds to be used by the secretary of state , as she determines , was to offset the costs of those countries that have dedicated troops to the global war on terror as well as economic support to other nations that have provided support . 
the senate provided a total of $ 225.5 million -- $ 200 million in the solidarity fund and $ 25.5 million in the global war on terror partners fund . 
the conference agreement provides a total of $ 230 million , merging the two funds into one appropriation and places these funds within the peacekeeping operations appropriations . 
this arrangement provides for regular order congressional review of the department 's plans for these funds . 
this will provide sufficient oversight of a substantial amount of money for the global war on terror . 
the house provided $ 33.7 million for support to ukraine . 
the senate provided the administration 's request of $ 60 million . 
the conference agreement provides $ 60 million for ukraine . 
these funds will support the government of ukraine 's highest priorities for political and economic reform , including anti-corruption initiatives and support for the upcoming parliamentary elections . 
i think my colleagues recognize that we are faced with unique opportunities in the middle east and afghanistan . 
u.s. leadership can have positive , democratic influence in the west bank , gaza , lebanon , belarus , and ukraine . 
this agreement will provide the financial resources necessary to promote democracy and provide state department with programs and projects to support these positive influences . 
finally , the conference agreement provides $ 656 million for assistance to the victims of the tsunami and earthquakes of last december and march . 
let me say that the funds we are providing in the foreign assistance chapter must be considered an investment in security both in the region and on american soil . 
however , congress has a responsibility to ensure that taxpayer dollars are used efficiently and transparently , and i know my colleagues take that responsibility seriously . 
we have included financial reporting requirements for all funds in the foreign operations chapter . 
for afghanistan counternarcotics and west bank gaza programs , we have included additional auditing requirements . 
as chairman , i pledge to continue vigorous oversight of these programs . 
the greatest weight all of us must bear is the knowledge that decisions we make as members of congress directly puts the lives of americans at risk . 
already , men and women from probably every district represented today have made the ultimate sacrifice in iraq and afghanistan . 
i firmly believe the bill before us today will help to build stability and freedom in afghanistan , the middle east and parts of asia . 
again , i urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on passage of the fiscal year 2005 emergency supplemental conference report on h.r. 1268 . 
