mr. chairman , the bill we bring to the floor today includes $ 2 billion for funding requirements under the jurisdiction of the subcommittee on science , state justice and commerce including state department and fbi needs related to program expenses in iraq . 
there are two major issues that i want to summarize , because there is not a lot of time . 
the embassy in iraq . 
the embassy in iraq , 45 people have died in attacks on the embassy in iraq . 
we want security in this building ; we want security in many other buildings around the city . 
this embassy will cost less in many respects than many of the other buildings . 
so there is going to be a lot to talk about . 
but to send our men and women in harm 's way to live in a building that is unsafe or to delay the construction would be , quite frankly , wrong . 
on the whole issue of peacekeeping , there may very well be an amendment to strike the peacekeeping section . 
members should know that in the north-south war , 2.1 million people in sudan , many christians , some muslims and animists , died in the north-south issue . 
darfur is the scene of genocide today as we now speak , and every member of this house voted to say there was genocide in sudan , and every member of the senate voted the same way . 
to take away the peacekeeping money after the bush administration has done such a good job of bringing north-south peace , to take that away to allow the raping and the pillaging and everything that is going on in sudan would be morally unacceptable . 
now , president bush , working with secretary powell and senator danforth , has negotiated , after 20 years , and keep in mind , osama bin laden lived in sudan from 1991 to 1996 , have negotiated for 20 years , and now to strike the peacekeeping money that will send troops in that regard , and we do not want to send american troops there , troops that will stop the pillaging and put insulation into the peace agreement that has been signed , and that will put pressure , pressure , on ending the genocide that is taking place in darfur . 
i would beg this congress after the good work of this administration and members on both sides , and almost everybody signed dear colleague letters urging the administration to do more on sudan , they are now doing it . 
keep in mind there was slavery in sudan up until 2 years ago . 
without peacekeepers in sudan , the north-south agreement will break down , 2.1 million christians will have died in vain , and many muslims and many animists , and darfur will not come to an end . 
so i beg this institution , when this amendment comes up to strike peacekeeping for this area , do not support it , because if you support it and it carries , the genocide , i can guarantee you , will continue in darfur and the north-south peace agreement will break down and the war will begin . 
and keep in mind , hamas has training camps in khartoum and so does hezbollah . 
the bill we bring to the floor today includes just over $ 2 billion for funding requirements under the jurisdiction of the subcommittee on science , state , justice and commerce , including state department and fbi needs related to program expenses in iraq . 
for the state department , we have included $ 1.92 billion , a reduction of $ 285 million from the president 's request . 
the bill includes the necessary funds to maintain our diplomatic presence in iraq and afghanistan , and to let our personnel carry out this duties in the safest and most secure manner possible . 
if we are going to conduct diplomacy anywhere , it had better be done , and done right , in iraq and afghanistan . 
these are front lines of our foreign policy , and we neglect them at our peril . 
this bill pays the costs necessary for operations , logistics , and security in those dangerous , but critically important parts of the world . 
this bill also includes $ 592 million to allow state to move out quickly to build a secure compound in baghdad . 
the current facilities are not secure . 
we need to move people out of harm 's way as soon as possible . 
state has secured a 100 acre site , and is ready to begin construction immediately upon receiving the funds in this bill . 
since the bombings in nairobi and dar es salaam , state has delivered many of these secure compounds on time and on budget . 
with this funding they will complete a secure living and working compound within 24 months of enactment . 
the bill also provides $ 580 million , $ 200 million below the president 's request , to pay for the u.s. share of ongoing peacekeeping missions and a new mission for sudan , where the u.s. has been a driving force for a peace agreement . 
we have also included requested funding for the fbi counterterrorism efforts , and for dea counternarcotics efforts in afghanistan . 
finally , the bill includes requested costs of $ 14.5 million to jump-start the improvement of united states tsunami warning capabilities . 
the committee has scrubbed the president 's request and reduced where we thought it made sense to do so . 
the result before you provides funding for important security measures for our diplomatic personnel , and provides for our ongoing commitments in iraq and elsewhere . 
i urge my colleagues to support the bill . 
