mr. speaker , i rise today to offer a motion to recommit that would provide $ 100 million in health and $ 50 million in job training transitional assistance to help active duty forces make the transition to the veterans benefits system . 
the gentleman from washington ( mr. baird ) xz4000110 and i have been working on this issue together and trying to add $ 1.3 billion for va health care and reintegration services . 
while our amendment was ruled not in order , we now have a chance to ensure that this supplemental includes at least some funding for vital health and employment services . 
america is currently asking more of its all-volunteer military force than it ever has before . 
yet even as america prepares to continue its large and prolonged military campaign in iraq , it has done very little to provide for the veterans of this war . 
our obligation to support our troops does not end when they leave iraq . 
but how are we supposed to provide adequate health care to these new veterans when we did not even meet the needs of our current veterans ? 
the fiscal year 2005 omnibus was $ 1.3 billion short in the amount that then secretary principi , as well as the house committee on veterans ' affairs , stated was needed to just maintain the current level of veterans health care . 
we also need to make sure that our returning soldiers have the readjustment assistance they need , particularly for members of the guard and reserve . 
you have to understand , these members do not go back to a base , they go back to their home state and then are scattered throughout that state . 
members of the national guard returning home face immense challenges in transitioning out of active duty deployment and back to civilian life . 
while the state guard offices are working to provide these returning soldiers with important information regarding their health care , employment assistance and other transitional services , they simply do not have the money they need to complete the education and counseling necessary for a smooth transition back to civilian life . 
i think our returning soldiers deserve better . 
mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support this motion to recommit and keep our promise to our nation 's veterans . 
mr. speaker , i yield to the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 . 
