mr. chairman , for the last two decades , the united nations population fund ( unfpa ) , has shockingly defended the coercive chinese population control program . 
by refusing to give american tax dollars to the unfpa , the united states stands solidly with the victims and against the oppressors . 
we must continue to do so as long as unfpa insists on supporting the chinese program . 
today , representative maloney offered an amendment to h.r. 1268 , the `` emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief '' , and she described the amendment as something that would give $ 3 million to unfpa . 
even though she explained it as a unfpa amendment , i want to clarify that the language of the amendment could in no way be construed to support or give funding to unfpa . 
in fact , the amendment does not even mention unfpa . 
the maloney amendment says , in chapter 1 of title ii of the bill , in the item relating to the `` economic support fund '' , after the first dollar amount , insert `` ( reduced by $ 3 , 000 , 000 ) '' . 
in chapter 1 of title iv of the bill , in the item relating to the `` tsunami recovery and reconstruction fund '' , after the first dollar amount , insert `` ( increased by $ 3 , 000 , 000 ) '' . 
since the maloney amendment simply transferred $ 3 million from one account to another , thereby providing aid funding without funding unfpa , i did not oppose the amendment . 
victims of the chinese one-child-per-couple policy have told me horrific stories . 
at one religious freedom meeting in china i asked what the participants knew about forced abortion policies . 
all three women in the group broke down in tears as they shared with me how they all had been forced to have abortions -- one woman talked about how she thought god was going to protect her baby , but she was not able to escape the abortion . 
other women who have gained asylum in the united states because of china 's coercive population control program have told me terrible stories of crippling fines , imprisonment of family members , and destruction of homes and property -- all to force abortion and sterilization upon millions of women . 
according mrs. gao xiao duan , a former administrator of a chinese planned birth control office , testified before congress about china 's policies . 
she explained , `` once i found a woman who was nine months pregnant , but did not have a birth-allowed certificate . 
according to the policy , she was forced to undergo an abortion surgery . 
in the operation room i saw how the aborted child 's lips were sucking , how its limbs were stretching . 
a physician injected poison into its skull , and the child died , and it was thrown into the trash can . 
. 
. 
. 
i was a monster in the daytime , injuring others by the chinese communist authorities ' barbaric planned-birth policy , but in the evening , i was like all other women and mothers , enjoying my life with my children . 
. 
. 
. 
to all those injured women , to all those children who were killed , i want to repent and say sincerely that i 'm sorry ! 
`` while mrs. gao acknowledged her part in these human rights atrocities and courageously told her story , unfpa continues to side with the chinese government . 
since 1979 , unfpa has been the chief apologist and cheerleader for china 's coercive one child per couple policy . 
despite numerous credible forced abortion reports from impeccable sources , including human rights organizations like amnesty international , journalists , former chinese population control officials and , above all , from the woman victims themselves , high officials at unfpa always dismiss and explain it all away . 
unfpa has funded , provided crucial technical support and , most importantly , provided cover for massive crimes of forced abortion and involuntary sterilization . 
time and again , high officials of unfpa have defended the indefensible and called voluntary that which is anything but . 
the former executive director of unfpa nafis sadik said , `` china has every reason to feel proud of and pleased with its remarkable achievements made in its family planning policy . 
the country could offer its experiences and special expert to help other countries. '' on cbs nightwatch she said , `` the unfpa firmly believes , and so does the government of the people 's republic of china , that their program is a totally voluntary program. '' and sven burmester , unfpa 's man in beijing , gushed over china 's achievements , `` in strictly quantitative terms , it was the most successful family-planning policy ever developed. '' make no mistake that china covets unfpa financial and verbal support of their program as a `` good-housekeeping seal of approval '' to whitewash their human rights violations . 
i traveled to china and met with the head of their population control program , peng peiyun . 
in our lengthy conversation , madame peng peiyun told me over and over again that there was no coercion in china , and then she cited unfpa 's participation in the program and unfpa 's public statements where unfpa leaders have defended it . 
the united states should not help unfpa cover up china 's crimes against women and children . 
in 2001 , the department of state determined that unfpa 's activities in china violated our human rights law , thereby making them ineligible for u.s. funding . 
on july 21 , 2001 , secretary of state powell wrote , `` regrettably , the prc has in place a regime of severe penalties on women who have unapproved births . 
this regime plainly operates to coerce pregnant women to have abortions in order to avoid the penalties and therefore amounts to a `program of coercive abortion. ' . 
. 
. 
unfpa 's support of , and involvement in , china 's population-planning activities allows the chinese government to implement more effectively its program of coercive abortion . 
therefore , it is not permissible to continue funding unfpa at this time. '' the funds that would have gone to unfpa were instead given to aid organizations . 
in 2002 , china explicitly stated its draconian population control program in law , but unfpa still continues to support the chinese program . 
the bush administration has consistently found unfpa ineligible to receive funding , most recently releasing a july 15 , 2004 letter where secretary powell said , `` china continues to employ coercion in its birth planning program , including through severe penalties for `out of plan births ' . 
. 
. 
. 
unfpa continues its support and involvement in china 's coercive birth limitation program in counties where china 's restrictive law and penalties are enforced by government officials. '' unfpa remains guilty of shamelessly supporting and whitewashing terrible crimes against humanity , and the united states must have no part in subsidizing them . 
in refusing to fund unfpa , president bush and this congress have taken the side of the oppressed and have refused to cooperate with the oppressor . 
unfpa has aggressively defended a barbaric policy that makes brothers and sisters illegal , and makes women the pawns of the population control cadres . 
if unfpa lobbied the chinese government to stop forced abortion as aggressively as they lobby the united states to overturn human rights policy , there would be less suffering in china today . 
an organization like the unfpa that continues to support china 's one-child per couple coerced abortion policy should not be rewarded with any new funding , and the maloney amendment provides them no new funding . 
