mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for bringing forth this amendment , with myself and the gentlewoman from north carolina ( mrs. myrick ) xz4002880 . 
with all due respect to the previous speaker , this is not about debating the merits of the necessity or the needs for a new embassy in baghdad . 
having traveled to baghdad twice , certainly there is a strong case that can be made that we do need to be moving forth on a new embassy , but this is how we are going to pay for that new embassy , getting back to regular order and procedure around here , and how we are going to afford the cost of this new embassy rather than just going into deficit spending . 
this amendment speaks to a larger issue . 
the last time i was in iraq , which was last fall , i noticed one thing , we are dropping a lot of concrete in iraq today , which is an indication that we are going to be there for a very , very long time . 
and year after year coming forward with more multibillion supplemental spending requests , all deficit financing , is not a sustainable policy . 
we need to get back to regular procedure and regular order around here , and what better place than to start on a nonemergency creation , the siting of a new embassy to get it to the appropriate committee for proper oversight and hearings of deliberation , and then finding the appropriate offsets to pay for this . 
i am going to support the supplemental today , as i have past supplementals . 
i believe our troops need to get all of the tools and resources to do their job safely and effectively . 
they have been doing a terrific job under very dangerous circumstances , including our state department personnel , who are working in the current embassy within the green zone in baghdad which is also at times a free-fire zone . 
but at some point we as a chamber and as a body need to get back to the regular process of starting to anticipate these costs , starting to appropriate it and budget for it so we do not leave a huge legacy of debt for future congresses and for our children and grandchildren to inherit . 
that is what this amendment speaks to . 
i want to especially commend a couple of units serving us so well from western wisconsin , the 128th infantry guard as well as the 1158th transportation unit . 
in fact , earlier this morning i got up and ran over to walter reed hospital to visit with some of our troops , including specialist andrew carter from the 128th who almost had his foot blown off due to an rpg that was fired at him during one of his passing patrols . 
just last week we lost another member from western wisconsin who was shot down in the line of duty , staff sergeant andrew bossert . 
he will be buried in wisconsin this thursday . 
i am sure members will join me in sending our thoughts and prayers to his family , his parents , but especially to his wife olya who lives in wisconsin . 
what we need to start considering at some point is whether or not the ongoing operations in iraq and afghanistan should be paid for as part of the normal budgeting process . 
these are no longer surprises and no longer emergencies . 
we know we are there . 
we know what the mission is going to entail and the costs we are facing . 
i think this is a good place to start by having this embassy go through the regular process where we can find offsets and an ability to pay for it . 
