mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , my good friend knows we all have the greatest respect for the cbo , but the cbo analyzes what they are given . 
i might invite my colleague to read the cbo estimate , which clearly states that this is going to cost more than is indicated by this rule and by the legislation . 
in fact , it is clear that in addition , by necessary implication , the bill would require states to develop new standards for the issuance of birth and death certificates , which cbo has estimated would cost states $ 460 billion over the next 5 years . 
i would venture to say the competents of the cbo could be put on the witness stand , and they would attest to the fact that this is what it was going to cost . 
so this is not in any way casting aspersions on their good work . 
it is what has been presented to them , and they have analyzed it . 
it is not an accurate picture , what has been presented to them this year , because they documented that this is a more than $ 450 million program . 
mr. speaker , this violates the rule , and it violates the waiver where , in essence , the republicans indicated in their early beginnings in the majority that they would not allow unfunded mandates to go forward on this floor . 
i joined them in that . 
i ask my colleagues to support this point of order , so we stand here united in a bipartisan way not to support an unfunded mandate . 
the actual merits of the bill , mr. speaker , can be discussed , as my colleague has said , later on during the day . 
we are discussing at this moment the value of this bill . 
it is excessive . 
it is burdensome . 
it is an unfunded mandate , and it might hamper our war against terrorism and the protection of our homeland . 
let us try to do this in a more effective way . 
mr. speaker , i raise my point of order , and ask my colleagues to support it . 
section 425 of the budget act states that a point of order lies against legislation which imposes an unfunded mandate against state or local governments more than $ 62 million per year over 5 years . 
at the very least we have before us today an unfunded mandate that will cost state governments between $ 660 million and $ 780 million over the next 5 years alone . 
specifically , subparagraphs ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) , and ( e ) of section 202 of h.r. 418 require state governments to comply with new federal driver 's license requirements and to verify and store additional personal identification records , which the congressional budget office , cbo , in its latest estimate , projects to cost states $ 120 million over the next 5 years , but last year estimated cost states $ 240 million over 5 years . 
there have been no substantive changes since last year 's estimate to imply that this bill would not cost the states at least $ 240 million as estimated last congress . 
the above sections also require states to participate in an interstate database to share driver information , which cbo estimates will cost an additional $ 80 million over 3 years . 
in addition , by necessary implication , the bill would require states to develop new standards for the issuance of birth and death certificates , which cbo has estimated would cost states $ 460 million over the next 5 years . 
there is overwhelming evidence before us today that this bill -- which has bypassed the committee process , denying members the opportunity to hear expert testimony on the impact of these sweeping changes to current law or to offer amendments to the proposed legislation -- will impose overwhelming costs on state governments already struggling to meet the growing costs of local laws enforcement 's role in securing the homeland . 
even further , this bill was drafted without any input from governors and state legislatures and even excludes the states from the standard-setting process despite states ' historic roles as issuers of driver 's licenses and other identification data . 
for these reasons the national governors association , american association of motor vehicle administrators , and the national conferences of state legislatures all strongly oppose this legislation . 
in a letter issued yesterday the national governors association and the american association of motor vehicle administrators stated their opposition to the drivers license provisions in both h.r. 418 and h.r. 368 , stating : the cost of implementing such standards and verification procedures for the 220 million driver 's licenses by states represent a massive unfunded mandate the national conference of state legislatures also has voiced its strong opposition , stating that : ncsl is opposed to any further federal attempts including coersion or direct preemption , to usurp state authority over the driver 's license process or diminish the validity or usefulness of licenses awarded at the state level . 
ncsl urges the federal government to respect the provisions and intent of the unfunded mandates reform act of 1995 . 
what we have before us today is an assault on federalism and the legislative process . 
this point of order is not about whether you agree or disagree with the sweeping policy changes of the real id act . 
this point of order is about the farce before us that has trampled states ' rights and inflated the burden on our local governments . 
i urge members to vote `` no '' on consideration of the resolution and stand up for the rights of your home states ' legislatures , governors and local governments . 
