mr. chairman , members should ask themselves how would they like if their children , their son , their daughter , or their husband or their wife was in this embassy here . 
now we have talked a lot , and this committee has done a lot on body armor and humvee armor . 
forty-five people have been killed in the embassy in iraq . 
from irvine , california , keith taylor , rocket attack ; tracy hushin , long island , new york , suicide bomber ; leslie davis from magnolia , texas , suicide bomber ; rosharon , texas , suicide bomber ; astoria , oregon , suicide bomber ; chickasaw , alabama , suicide bomber ; myrtle beach , south carolina , near fallujah attack ; cleveland , ohio ; copperas cove , texas ; north branch , minnesota ; south windham , connecticut . 
this embassy was not built to be an embassy . 
this was saddam hussein 's palace . 
it is a symbol of torture . 
it is not to be the symbol of the united states government . 
we need to act quickly . 
we need to act quickly . 
if this amendment , if the upton amendment passes , there will be a 6-month period whereby they will not have the protection . 
i will put this listing out so members can review them . 
fire in a wooded area , electrical fire in saddam hussein 's palace , again the structure was not built for it . 
fire in saddam 's palace , august , 2004 . 
i will not mention the woman 's name , blood on the wall of a rocket attack whereby this young woman was killed . 
and here is a picture of two americans killed the day before the iraqi election . 
we have had 1 , 500 military people die in the war in iraq . 
it is help bringing about freedom . 
it is making a difference in the palestinian area . 
it is making a difference in egypt . 
it is making a difference in lebanon . 
it is inappropriate for us not to fund a safe workplace for american citizens who are going to work in harm 's way . 
lastly , people say this is an expensive embassy . 
this is an embassy , but it is a village . 
there is a power plant . 
there are housing facilities . 
the beijing embassy cost $ 434 million . 
there is no threat to american citizens in beijing . 
there are no terrorist attacks . 
in lebanon , 1983 , 241 marines were killed in a barracks with no setback . 
that same year in the american embassy in lebanon , a number of americans killed . 
there was the american bombing of the embassies in tanzania and kenya 1989 . 
we have a moral obligation to the people that we are sending in this region to live in a situation and work where they will be protected . 
i rise in strong opposition to this amendment . 
as the gentleman from california ( mr. cunningham ) xz4000910 said as i was walking down to the well , how would members like it if your children , your son or daughter or husband or wife had to work in this facility . 
i urge a no vote on the amendment . 
