mr. chairman , i can not help before i begin to join with my colleague , the gentleman from virginia ( mr. wolf ) xz4004350 , to say that we absolutely can not strike those vital funds for peacekeeping . 
but , mr. chairman , i rise today , as well as to support those peacekeeping dollars , to say that many of the efforts in this legislation , the work that has been done by the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 and the gentleman from california ( mr. lewis ) xz4002391 , i can appreciate in this emergency supplemental , even though as i have spoken to my good friend and leader , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. murtha ) xz4002860 , on this issue , it is important that we have an announced success strategy for leaving iraq . 
remember what i said , a success strategy , and i have not yet heard that from the administration . 
but i rise today to comment that the legislation fails to contain important provisions that would provide what is truly needed by our government and that would ensure that the $ 81.3 billion in this bill is really spent wisely . 
i think we could have done better . 
i am very disturbed as the ranking member of the committee on the judiciary subcommittee on immigration , border security , and claims that we have now forced into this bill as a self-operating part of the rule that h.r. 418 would be included in the engrossment of the underlying bill , h.r. 1268 . 
i opposed the republican leadership 's position to attach the real id act to this emergency supplemental . 
this is anti-immigrant legislation that will not make us safer . 
rather , it scapegoats asylum seekers and other immigrants . 
last year , congress passed new driver 's license standards in the 9/11 intelligence reform bill with bipartisan support , and i do support that . 
it was a good bill , and the intelligence reform bill was supported in a bipartisan manner . 
but we do not need to undo the careful compromise and thought processes by imposing anti-immigrant policies onto states ' driver 's licenses and identification processes . 
where is the money ? 
this is an unfunded mandate . 
what is a state going to do if they are not able to implement these new procedures because they do not have the money ? 
the bill is being attached here in an effort to force the senate to pass these ill-conceived policies . 
we have had no hearings on this real id legislation , and i oppose the inclusion of this bill if the underlying legislation is passed and engrossed as set forth in h. res. 151 . 
h.r. 418 includes numerous provisions limiting the rights of refugees , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning the construction of fences and barriers where we have been told by homeland security experts they will not make us safer anywhere in the united states , and denying immigrants long-standing habeas corpus rights . 
i believe those who are criminals need to be incarcerated , but there are immigrants who are standing in line trying to achieve citizenship . 
if reenacted into this legislation , it will yet again threaten to close america 's doors to religious minorities escaping religious persecution and women fleeing sex trafficking , rape and forced abortions . 
in the wake of the 9/11 tragedy , and even after the patriot act , this legislation would further target immigrants for crimes they have not committed and sins for which they are not responsible . 
at some point we have to treat terrorism as a problem that requires an `` intelligence '' response , as opposed to an excuse to scapegoat immigrants . 
an emergency supplemental that purports to aid tsunami victims , our troops in iraq and afghanistan is no place for the provisions of the real id act . 
i support spending the necessary dollars to keep our troops in iraq safe , to provide relief to victims of the tsunami in southeast asia and africa , and to provide security in afghanistan ; but this is a poison pill . 
i look forward to supporting the jackson amendment . 
i will offer an amendment to stop the devastating lack of funding on the immigration and customs enforcement section of dhs . 
but we need to take this real id out of it so we can have a good bill . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of some of the efforts funded in this emergency supplemental , h.r. 1268 , although the legislation fails to contain important provisions that would both provide what is truly needed by our government and that would ensure that the $ 81.3 billion proposed in this bill is spent wisely . 
of particular concern to me as ranking member of the house judiciary subcommittee on immigration , border security , and claims , is the forced inclusion of h.r. 418 in the engrossment of the underlying bill , h.r. 1268 . 
i oppose the republican leadership 's decision to attach the real id act to this emergency supplemental . 
this anti-immigrant legislation will not make us safer -- rather , it scapegoats asylum-seekers and other immigrants . 
last year , congress passed new driver 's license standards in the 9/11 intelligence reform bill with bipartisan support . 
we do not need to undo that careful compromise by imposing anti-immigrant policies onto states ' driver 's license and identification processes . 
this bill is being attached here in an effort to force the senate to pass these ill-conceived policies . 
we have had no hearings on this bill , and i oppose the inclusion of this bill if the underlying legislation is passed and engrossed as set forth in the rule , h. res. 151 . 
h.r. 418 includes numerous provisions limiting the rights of refugees , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning the construction of fences and barriers anywhere within the united states , and denying immigrants long standing habeas corpus rights . 
if re-enacted into this legislation it will yet again threaten to close america 's doors to religious minorities escaping religious persecution ; and women fleeing sex trafficking , rape , and forced abortions . 
in the wake of the 9/11 tragedy , and even after the patriot act , this legislation would further target immigrants for crimes they have not committed and sins for which they are not responsible . 
at some point , we have to treat terrorism as a problem that requires an `` intelligence '' response , as opposed to an excuse to scapegoat immigrants . 
an emergency supplemental that purports to aid tsumani victims , our troops in iraq , and afghanistan is no place for the provisions of real id . 
inclusion in this fashion amounts to a forced acceptance of its provisions much like a contract of adhesion . 
mr. chairman , i support spending the necessary dollars to keep our troops in iraq safe , to provide relief to victims of the tsunamis in southeast asia and africa , and to provide security for afghanistan . 
however , the legislation before us today stands to use the public 's fear of terrorism to radically change asylum law for all asylees , not just those with some connection to terrorism or relating to the issues contained in the underlying legislation . 
for these reasons , i oppose this legislation in its present form . 
i will , however , support the jackson amendment on africa and i as well , will offer an amendment to stop the devastating lack of funding of the immigration and customs enforcement section of dhs , a real crucial part of the nation 's homeland security . 
