mr. chairman , my amendment is offered to force the government of nigeria to transfer the indicted war criminal charles taylor to the united nations special court in sierra leone . 
mr. taylor xz4003992 is currently residing in calabar , nigeria and maintaining his active role fomenting terror and crime throughout west africa from this base . 
the united states government has asked that mr. taylor xz4003992 be turned over to the u.n . 
court , but the government of nigeria has refused . 
charles taylor has been the leading force for evil in west africa since his overthrow of the doe government in 1990 . 
hundreds of thousands of liberians were killed during his reign of terror , or forced to flee . 
mr. taylor xz4003992 enabled liberia to become a base for international organized crime and has subverted the governments of his neighbors . 
in 2003 , mr. taylor xz4003992 was overthrown by the people of liberia and sought sanctuary in nigeria , despite his indictment by the u.n . 
special court for sierra leone in the light of his terrorist activities in his own country . 
the government of nigeria has promised to keep mr. taylor xz4003992 contained , but reliable sources have confirmed political operations in liberia , transfer assets in europe and receive funds from crime in west africa . 
recently mr. taylor xz4003992 traveled to burkina faso to meet with islamist groups in that country . 
most disturbing of all , charles taylor organized and paid for an assassination attempt against the president of guinea earlier this year . 
peace in west africa will not come until charles taylor is brought to justice for his crime and removed as a threat from the region . 
the nigerian government must be shown that harboring a war criminal and a terrorist is not in their best interest . 
i urge the house to join me in passing this amendment and standing for justice and the rule of law in west africa . 
mr. chairman , i yield to the gentleman from virginia ( mr. wolf ) xz4004350 . 
