mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1268 , the war supplemental appropriations bill for fy 2005 , which will provide funding for military operations and reconstruction activities in iraq and afghanistan , as well as important funds for tsunami relief and recovery . 
the bill before us includes important changes made by the appropriations committee to the president 's original budget request . 
these changes are essential to providing our servicemen and women the equipment and support they need to help keep them safe as they fulfill their important mission . 
committed to the fact that the well-being of our troops is our highest priority , the appropriations committee increased funding by 69 percent more than requested for add-on vehicle armor kits ; $ 401 million more , or twice the amount requested , for new trucks ; and $ 50 million in unrequested funds for radio jammers to disrupt attempts by iraqi insurgents to explode remote controlled bombs and mines . 
the bill also includes important provisions to increase the military death gratuity from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 and to provide subsidized life insurance benefits from $ 250 , 000 to $ 400 , 000 for families of soldiers who die or are killed on active duty , and we make these important provisions retroactive to the beginning of military operations on october 7 , 2001 . 
no amount can compensate for the death of a loved one , but an increase in these benefits that can help a family cope with the financial impact of a combat death is long overdue . 
when the appropriations committee met , i strongly supported the jackson amendment to add $ 150 million in food aid for sudan , and i am pleased we have acted again today to add $ 100 million in additional disaster assistance . 
the united states has an obligation and opportunity to assist this troubled country , and i believe this additional funding sets an important example for the united nations and other countries that still need to respond to the crisis in sudan . 
i have been very concerned about the lack of accountability by the defense department and the administration as we provide them with enormous , although necessary , sums of money . 
while there has been some improvement , i am troubled that the department of defense has not submitted the required biannual report on the military operations of the armed forces and on the reconstruction activities administered by dod in iraq and afghanistan . 
i know that chairman jerry lewis , defense appropriations chairman bill young and ranking members david obey and john murtha , as well as my colleagues on the full committee , have expressed similar concerns about dod 's lack of responsiveness . 
i 'm also troubled that the administration continues to request emergency supplemental funds for military operations . 
we have been engaged in afghanistan for over three years , and nearly three years have gone by since we invaded iraq . 
therefore , it is no surprise that funds are needed to support our servicemen and women overseas . 
the administration should be building these costs into their regular budget submissions . 
i am also disappointed that the republican leadership failed to make in order an important amendment by representatives hooley and delauro to expand veterans ' health care and mental health care . 
our returning troops deserve whatever help they need to successfully transition to civilian life . 
finally , i am particularly angry that the republican leadership is using this bill as a vehicle to move an unrelated piece of legislation , the sensenbrenner `` real id '' immigration bill . 
the important bill before us provides critical resources for our servicemen and women overseas and badly needed disaster relief . 
it should not be used by the republican leadership to fulfill their political promises . 
i hope the senate will oppose this legislative gambit and confine the bill to address the serious needs it is intended to address . 
however , in spite of my concerns , i believe it is our responsibility to provide our servicemen and women the resources necessary for them to fulfill their mission and come home safely . 
protecting our troops , who are sacrificing so much on our behalf , and providing for their families , will always be my first priority , and that is why i am supporting this bill today . 
