mr. chairman , my understanding of an emergency supplemental is to deal with emergency funding situations in the government . 
i realize that the present language speaks directly to coast guard , which is part of now the department of homeland security . 
this amendment amends that section and asks and has a viable offset and asks simply to allow $ 40 million of that amount to be able to be utilized for the underfunded ice agents that do not have uniforms , that do not have badges , that do not have ids . 
frankly , i believe if we are to do our work in iraq , whether we agree or disagree with the war in iraq , we do know that it is represented to us by the administration to be a war on terror . 
how can we fight the war on terror in afghanistan and iraq and not fight the war on terror in this country within our boundaries ? 
the immigration customs and enforcement helps us do that . 
it separates out those who intend to do us harm from those who are here who may be undocumented but are here simply for economic reasons . 
we need to be able to thwart those who may come across the border to do us harm and are not caught at the border . 
we need to be able to have the agency well equipped to protect us by securing those individuals and detaining them . 
without those resources they can not even continue . 
do not take my word . 
take the word of admiral loy , who indicated that they needed more dollars to finish out the fiscal year in question . 
i would ask my colleague , and i would also ask at this moment , that if he pursues his point of order , whether or not we will have the opportunity , whether in conference or as we continue the appropriations process , to focus on the lack of funding for the immigration and enforcement officers , immigration , customs and enforcement officers , the border patrol , which i think you are aware of , and the detention beds . 
i would like very much to yield to the chairman , and on this issue i think we are all in common agreement about the need to secure our homeland . 
