mr. speaker , i yield myself 3 minutes . 
mr. speaker , i take this time to explain the motion to recommit that i will offer at the end of this debate . 
here is what it does : the senate bill contains funding for a total of 150 , 000 border patrol agents , 250 immigration investigators , and 168 immigration enforcement agents , and detention officers and their associated training and support cast . 
this conference agreement falls short of the senate bill in 3 areas . 
it only contains funds for 500 border patrol agents , not the 150 , 000 called for in the senate bill . 
it only contains funding for 50 immigration investigators , not the 250 called for in the senate bill . 
last , it also contains no funding for unmanned border aerial vehicles . 
the motion to recommit is simple . 
it would take us to the levels contained in the senate bill for border patrol agents by adding funding for 550 additional border patrol agents and for 200 immigration investigators . 
it would also fund unmanned border aerial vehicles that have been used successfully in a test in arizona to assist in surveillance . 
former dhs deputy secretary lloyd testified that the vehicles provided `` invaluable '' service . 
since border patrol agents are trained at the federal law enforcement training center in artesia , new mexico , funding is included like the senate bill to purchase and operate modular classrooms for these additional agents . 
this motion , in short , would provide an additional $ 284.4 million to immigration and customs enforcement to do this as was in the senate bill . 
need i remind anyone that the intelligence reform bill , which became law last december , called for 2 , 000 additional border patrol agents a year and 800 additional immigration investigators ? 
the president requested no funding for that supplemental request . 
i would note that on march 30 the administration announced it would add more than 500 agents in arizona , but those are not new agents . 
135 of them or so will come from other southwest and southern border patrol locations , and the remainder are simply new trainees who will replace agents retiring or leaving the border patrol across the country . 
so i would simply urge house members to vote for this motion . 
it ought not be at all controversial . 
it is practical if you want to put your money where your press releases have been with respect to border patrol . 
mr. speaker , i yield for the purpose of making a unanimous consent request to the gentleman from new york ( mr. engel ) xz4001220 . 
