mr. chairman , i thank the chairman for accepting this amendment , and i rise in support of the maloney amendment . 
with experience and success in saving lives and helping to ensure the safe delivery of tens of thousands of babies in more than 50 countries and territories , unfpa is uniquely qualified to assist victims of the tsunami devastation . 
a small transfer of $ 3 million to the unfpa would go a long way in making an immediate and tangible impact on the lives of women and children in indonesia , sri lanka , and the maldives . 
i again thank the chairman for accepting this language , and i thank my colleague , the gentlewoman from new york ( mrs. maloney ) xz4002510 , for placing the language . 
the unfpa currently has a flash appeal for $ 28 million , of which they have received almost 70 percent . 
our contribution would represent approximately 11 percent , bringing them much closer to meeting five pressing needs in the region . 
first , unfpa is providing safe delivery kits , hygiene kits , medicines and supplies , including soap and sanitary napkins . 
these basic items help stem the transmission of hiv/aids and ensure safe childbirth and emergency obstetric care . 
in communities ravaged by natural disaster , the lack of such important and simple supplies as these can result in serious life threatening health crises . 
second , unfpa works to reestablish maternal health care clinics and services destroyed by the tsunami such as prenatal care and delivery assistance and post-natal care . 
as we know , disasters put pregnant women at much greater risk for miscarriage or premature labor . 
approximately 150 , 000 women in the tsunami affected region are pregnant . 
fifty thousand women alone will give birth in the next 3 months . 
third , unfpa would work to prevent and treat cases of violence against women . 
it is a sad fact that women are more likely to be victims of sexual assault and violence in times of crisis . 
we have already heard disturbing cases of widespread sexual violence in sri lanka . 
unfpa programs help to provide emergency response , security and legal services to better protect women and children . 
unfpa programs would also offer psychological counseling to women and children still suffering from the horror of the tsunami . 
in countless cases , mothers are dealing with the nearly unfathomable pain of losing their husbands and children or , conversely , children are trying to make sense of a world without their families . 
many women are now faced with being the head of their household and their mental well-being will be paramount as they gather the strength to rebuild their communities . 
and finally , unfpa will help unaccompanied women and other vulnerable people access vital services such as water , food , health care and sanitation facilities . 
unfpa is especially well placed to do this life-saving work as it already has offices in all the tsunami-affected countries and long-standing relationships with local governments and non-governmental organizations . 
we all know that confusion and discord often stymies our efforts to get relief and support to those who need it most . 
supporting organizations with a proven track record and programs in place is one of the most successful and cost-effective ways to make our generous contributions go farther . 
i urge my colleagues to do everything we can to help the women and children who have already been through so much with the destruction brought by the tsunami . 
please join me in voting to support unfpa 's important work in saving lives . 
