mr. chairman , i move to strike the requisite number of words . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of this amendment which is offered by the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. tierney ) xz4004070 and the gentleman from iowa ( mr. leach ) xz4002360 . 
this is a strong amendment that adds a modest amount of funding for an important function , the function of creating a select committee to investigate the award and carrying out of contracts as it relates to iraq and afghanistan . 
mr. chairman , we are at war . 
taxpayers are looking to congress to spend their money wisely and well . 
this is an idea that is rich in history . 
as my colleague from missouri pointed out , this is not the first time this has been done . 
this was modeled after the committee created by then-senator harry truman back in 1941 , known as the special committee to investigate the national defense program . 
this committee was bipartisan , and i might point out it was created by a congress controlled by the same party with the same party in control at the white house . 
that is the situation today , and that is why it would be well to have a bipartisan committee to do just this . 
we have seen reports in the news media of contract abuse , and i think a committee such as this would help tremendously . 
we could benefit from similar oversight as we had in harry truman 's day today . 
outstanding committees like the committee on armed services , on which i am privileged to serve , have looked at some issues relating to contracting in iraq and afghanistan . 
we have an extraordinary set of mandates at a time of war . 
at the same time , there is a significant amount of money in contracting in both those countries . 
we would benefit from a select committee to review the contracting process , and most of all , the accountability of the contractors . 
i thank the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. tierney ) xz4004070 and the gentleman from iowa ( mr. leach ) xz4002360 for their foresight , and urge serious support for this amendment . 
