mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the emergency supplemental appropriations act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief , 2005 . 
i have had the opportunity to visit iraq twice over the last 2 years and visit with our military women and men and survey the operations of the u.s. reconstruction mission in iraq . 
never have i been more proud to be an american than when i visited our troops and observed them in the line of duty . 
my trips reconfirmed that we must give our troops the tools and resources they need to carry out their mission safely and effectively so they can return home soon . 
for this reason i am supporting the administration 's supplemental request for $ 81 billion . 
specifically , i would like to highlight the good work of the 128th infantry division out of western wisconsin , and the 1158th transportation company out of tomah , black river falls , and beliot . 
the 128th is on their first tour of duty in iraq and is performing well , despite several equipment shortages and setbacks the unit has dealt with . 
the 1158th is on their second tour of duty , and is also performing above and beyond their mission . 
i am extraordinarily proud of their service to our country . 
i am especially proud of young men like andrew carter . 
today i had the opportunity to visit andrew , a member of the 128th , at walter reed hospital . 
he was recently injured in iraq riding in a humvee that was hit by an rpg . 
there is a good chance he would have been killed if it had n't been for vehicle armor that was added to the humvee . 
this supplemental appropriates more funding to continue to armor humvees , so that we can continue to save lives . 
one of the first things andrew said to me was that he wants to heal quickly so he can get back to iraq and serve with his unit . 
his resolve is a good reminder of the dedication of our men and women in uniform and why we need to renew our commitment to soldiers like andrew . 
while i do not endorse all of the supplemental 's provisions , in the absence of a funding alternative , i support the need to provide for our troops . 
but we do need to start budgeting and paying for their obligations , such as the need for a new embassy in iraq , instead of passing so-called `` emergency '' supplementals and leaving a legacy of debt for our children to inherit . 
as our military effort continues , i and other members of congress will work to ensure that our service men and women have all the resources necessary to fulfill their mission . 
again , my thoughts and prayers are with those serving our country , as well as their families . 
america is firmly behind our troops and we 're all hoping to see them home safe , secure , and soon . 
may god continue to bless these united states of america . 
