mr. speaker , this motion to recommit provides for restrictions on the information contained in the national database . 
this bill as it stands requires that the database shall contain at a minimum all information contained on the driver 's licenses as well as driving history . 
this would create no limit as to what other information may eventually be incorporated in the database . 
this motion would simply protect the privacy rights of americans from a national id database in this bill . 
in particular , this amendment guarantees that the database can not become a centralized storage place for sensitive personal information on nearly every american about whether they own guns , what guns they own and whether they have purchased any guns . 
this could be the national gun registry that we have all feared for years . 
this motion to recommit would also bar information on the exercise of first amendment and fourteenth amendment rights from being included in the driver 's license database . 
we should not have a government database of political activities of law-abiding citizens . 
as bob barr , our former colleague , said in the washington times last year in opposition to nearly identical provisions , `` you know something is askew when we second amendment conservatives keep finding common cause with the american civil liberties union. '' groups strongly opposed include the gun owners of america , the aclu , the republican liberty caucus , the league of united latin americans citizens , the american conservative union , and the privacy rights clearinghouse . 
our constituents have set aside partisan concerns in recognition of the dangerous consequences , unintended consequences , of passing this misguided legislation . 
this bill would establish a national interstate computer database to track the personal information of every single american , laying the foundation , i believe , for a national id system . 
moreover , h.r. 418 places privacy limitations on the use of centralized data . 
it does not even prohibit the federal government from sharing personal information with other people , companies , and foreign governments . 
this system , i believe , is ripe for abuse , mr. speaker . 
by forcing state governments to maintain and share files on almost every adult in the nation , this bill will truly usher in the era of big brother . 
the database could be used to track americans ' movements , store information on political activities , and even store information on gun ownership . 
mr. speaker , i hope that the rest of my colleagues are not fooled by h.r. 418 . 
this is nothing less than a bureaucratic back door to a national id system . 
mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time . 
