mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the nadler amendment and ask members , especially on my side of the aisle , to join us in striking section 101 . 
section 101 purports to reform asylum -- but it does not . 
under the pretext that it mitigates terrorists ' access to the united states , the provision actually does a grave injustice and disservice to the persecuted , such as religious believers , and all others who have a well-founded fear of persecution and who seek asylum in our country . 
section 101 imposes onerous new requirements on the persecuted , including those who have been traumatized by rape , torture , trafficking , and religious hate and persecution , to prove the persecutor 's motive . 
read the language . 
you have got to prove that persecution was a central reason you left and why you are seeking asylum . 
i would remind my colleagues that i have been in congress 25 years . 
dictatorships and authoritarian regimes never persecute . 
it is always some other pretext , whether it be the people 's republic of china , vietnam , cuba . 
when it was romania many years back , there was always a false reason . 
slander against the soviet state was used over and over again , never because you were jewish or christian or because you were an evangelical or some other reason . 
they always have a pretext . 
i can guarantee if this is enacted into law that real asylum seekers will be denied , and then the piling on just begins to start . 
how many members have met persecuted people , traumatized people who are coming to our borders ? 
they get their stories wrong . 
according to this language , if they have any inconsistency , even if it is not germane to the issue at hand , if they get a date wrong , how many members have forgotten their wife 's birthday , date or year ? 
we all make mistakes . 
get one of those things wrong and the trier of facts can exclude you based on that single situation . 
this is an ugly provision . 
i say with respect to my friend and colleague from wisconsin , i am against terrorism . 
9/11 hurt people in my district . 
they were hurt big time . 
this is an ugly provision , mr. speaker . 
it has not had , in my view , the kind of hearing needed in terms of the consequences that it will impose upon true asylum seekers . 
i hope members will vote against this . 
i have authored 3 torture victims relief laws to help torture victims . 
i meet with a lot of torture victims . 
they forget ; they have been traumatized . 
you forget something pursuant to these new requirements and you are a goner . 
you are being deported back to that country of origin where you have been persecuted . 
please vote against section 101 . 
vote for the nadler amendment . 
