mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
the untrained observer would believe that we were debating a social security bill here this afternoon . 
in fact , it is the rule on the budget blueprint for this country for fiscal year 2006 , a budget blueprint that does a number of things important to the american people . 
it puts our soldiers and sailors and airmen and marines and coast guard and reservists and guardsmen foremost , fully funding the president 's defense request , budgeting for the continued global war on terror to the tune of $ 50 billion ; prioritizing , even making tough divisions , something that we are loathe to do often in this process , but it is what we are here for , making tough decisions about priorities , priorities in government , priorities in households , priorities in our individual lives , something every american is accustomed to . 
it continues to invest heavily in our nation 's defense and homeland security . 
but it also recognizes that these challenges that have come about since 2001 have also required us as a nation to make some tradeoffs . 
and so for the first time since the reagan administration , it calls for an eight-tenths of a percent reduction in nonsecurity discretionary spending . 
it directs the authorizing committees to find savings on the mandatory side of spending , discretionary being just over a third of the budget anymore ; mandatory nearing two thirds , essentially on auto pilot . 
so a balanced approach to finding savings in our government such that we may begin to get our arms around the deficits and cut the deficit in half in 5 years so that we do not shoulder young people just entering the workforce , school-age children , children not yet born with these massive debts . 
we begin the difficult process of fiscal restraint , something that is anathema to this body oftentimes , all too often . 
it has been said in the context of the social security debate that the other side does not believe the solution to solving social security 's problems is to privatize it . 
we do not believe the solution to social security 's problems is to do nothing . 
we have led with our chin on this issue , and i am very proud of that effort ; and i am proud of the manner in which we have conducted this debate because it will undoubtedly be an extensive debate occupying a good part of the 109th congress . 
it is an opportunity for this congress to lead , to lead the american people to an understanding of an issue that is at a total insolvency point occurring in 2042 , but its impacts on the federal budget beginning as soon as 2008 . 
and as a young person who will be impacted by that , it gives us an opportunity to look beyond the short term and be truly visionary in the great ways that this congress is capable of being . 
we have done a lot of great things over the past several years : doubling nih , continuing to invest in research and cures and trials to make the human condition better . 
and , frankly , we have succeeded to the point that the reason why social security faces insolvency is because the life expectancy of americans continues to grow . 
every 5 years that pass , life expectancy goes up a year . 
this budget continues to fund our priorities , continues to invest in people , and continues to lay the groundwork for policies that allow people to pursue their own version of the american dream , to find opportunity in a growing , expanding economy ; that allows for job creation , that does not punish entrepreneurial spirit , that allows people to continue to invest in their businesses , to have more money in their own pocket to make decisions about their own children 's future , about their own opportunities , and about their own hopes and dreams . 
and with that i urge my colleagues to support the rule , which is a very fair and balanced rule , and to support the underlying budget produced by the committee . 
the material previously referred to by mr. mcgovern xz4002630 is as follows : previous question for h. res. 154 , rule for h. con . 
res. 95 at the end of the resolution add the following new section : sec . 
3. notwithstanding any other provision in this resolution , immediately after disposition of the concurrent resolution h. con . 
res. 95 , the speaker shall declare the house resolved into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for consideration of the bill ( h.r. 1330 ) to provide that social security contributions are used to protect social security solvency by mandating that trust fund monies can not be diverted to create private accounts . 
the first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with . 
general debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the committee on ways and means . 
after general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule . 
the bill for amendment the committee shall rise and report the bill sec . 
4. if the committee of the whole rises and reports that it has come to no resolution on the bill h.r. 1330 , then on the next legislative day the house shall , immediately after the third daily order of business under clause 1 of rule xiv , resolve into the committee of the whole for further consideration of that bill . 
mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution . 
