mr. speaker , i am going to urge a `` no '' vote on the previous question and a `` no '' vote on the rule . 
the minority has an issue we want to discuss in the course of this budget . 
that issue is whether or not we should stand by and allow the continued diversion of revenue assessed taxpayers for the specific purpose of social security . 
social security means a lot to me . 
i have received a social security check . 
i have received that survivors benefit when my dad died . 
it meant so incredibly much to our family . 
one in six north dakotans that i represent , 114 , 000 , get a social security check every month . 
well over half of north dakotans pay into social security . 
they say what we have heard all across the country , and that is , `` my social security taxes are for social security . 
do n't raid those social security dollars. '' now , of course , given the discussion on this radical overhaul of social security , we have the other prospect that these dollars will be taken away from social security and placed into private accounts , resulting in either massive additional borrowing to continue social security benefits or very draconian budget cuts . 
massive additional borrowing or budget cuts if the revenue coming into social security is diverted into private accounts . 
we think right now is the time to have this discussion . 
i support so much the amendment brought up by my friend from colorado ( mr. salazar ) xz4006201 , a new member . 
he wants to have this body move immediately to a debate on his amendment which would prohibit the diversion of social security money upon our completion of the budget . 
i think this is a good idea . 
i would like to hear one reason why we ought not move to discussing this diversion of social security money away from the social security trust fund , why we should not discuss today the prospects of massive additional federal borrowing if we divert the social security money , why we should not discuss today the draconian budget cuts that would reduce benefits potentially to people who desperately need them if we divert money that is coming in to pay benefits into private accounts . 
there is a lot of explaining to do , in my opinion , for those who are advancing this privatization scheme on social security ; and i know the nation would feel an awful lot better , certainly those i represent , if we conduct this debate having first adopted the preservation of social security . 
let us move to the discussion on how we shore up and maintain and strengthen social security , but not in ways that would cause massive additional borrowing , massive benefit cuts . 
vote `` no '' on the previous question . 
support this opportunity to debate the salazar amendment . 
