mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
let me first say to the gentleman that only in washington would one call a cut a reduction in the rate of increase in spending . 
the bottom line is that this budget is more than just a general blueprint . 
there are specific directions in this budget that not only cut to the bone but cut through the bone . 
and , again , i repeat that this is a budget that creates a government that will have no conscience , and it needs to be defeated . 
mr. speaker , if the previous question is defeated , i will modify this rule to provide that immediately after the house passes the budget resolution , it will take up h.r. 1330 , the social security trust fund protection act . 
this legislation , introduced by the gentleman from colorado ( mr. salazar ) xz4006201 , would ensure that social security contributions are used to protect social security solvency by mandating that trust fund moneys can not be diverted to create private accounts . 
mr. speaker , while members of this house may differ on what is the best long-term solution to ensure solvency of social security , i think we probably all agree that we need to protect the money that goes into the trust fund and that any diversion of these funds must be undertaken with great care . 
private accounts do not help the trust fund solvency . 
in fact , it is estimated that they would cost the system more than $ 5 trillion . 
h.r. 1330 will give us an opportunity to vote up or down on whether we want the social security trust fund to be used to pay for these fiscally irresponsible private accounts . 
let me make it very clear that a `` no '' vote on the previous question will not stop consideration of the budget resolution , nor will it change the process by which it is to be considered . 
but a `` no '' vote will allow the house to vote to prevent the siphoning off of the social security trust fund to pay for private accounts . 
so , mr. speaker , i urge a `` no '' vote on the previous question . 
mr. speaker , i ask unanimous consent that the text of the amendment be printed in the record immediately before the vote on the previous question . 
