mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , i would like to make a few points regarding the unintended consequences of our foreign policy , as well as what might happen in lebanon . 
it has been said about our administration that we hope the lebanese people will be able to express their view at the ballot box through free elections without interference and outside intimidation . 
that sounds like a pretty good suggestion , with the conclusion by the administration that when there is outside interference the elections are unreliable . 
once again , i ask the question , does that not raise the question of whether or not the elections in iraq are as reliable , as is supposed ? 
also , president bush said that these elections must take place without external forces , and all the troops must be out . 
the un resolution calls for the troops out as well as the security forces , but the resolution also calls for disarming the people of lebanon . 
in other words , this resolution takes the position that we should go in lebanon and repeal the lebanese second amendment rights so that nobody has any guns . 
i just see that as an interference that is going to lead to trouble . 
we see civil strife precipitating a civil war in iraq , and i think what our involvement here now is liable to lead to that type of situation , rather than peace and prosperity and elections . 
it is said that this has all come out from the murder and killing of hariri , and most people now just assume that the government of syria had something to do with that . 
yet there is no evidence for that . 
there is absolutely zero benefit for the syrian government to have killed hariri . 
but there is a theory that some of the radical muslims in syria that object to assad , because he is too moderate , because he endorsed the persian gulf war and because he takes some of our prisoners and he participates in the interrogations of our prisoners , that he is seen as too liberal , too friendly with the west , and some suppose that that could have been the reason that the murder had occurred , believing that it would bring down the government of assad . 
now , that could be an unintended consequence , that consequence that could have a great deal of significance , and that is that the radicals end up taking over , some individuals more radical than assad , end up taking over syria , which is always the possibility . 
but too often these unintended consequences occur and then we do not know how to respond to them . 
in iraq in january of this year there was some polling done , an expression by the people on what they thought about foreign occupation . 
eighty-two percent of the sunnis , i guess understandably so , said that all foreign troops ought to leave , and 69 percent of the shiites said all foreign troops ought to leave . 
i wonder why that is not important to anybody ? 
instead , we are talking about occupation for years , about building 14 bases in iraq . 
how long do we stay in these countries and why is it so necessary for us to be telling other people what to do and when to do it and how to do it and stirring up nothing but anti-american sentiment , while at the same time , even though our goals may be well-intentioned , they are never achieved ? 
we just do not achieve them . 
and to think that the election under the conditions that we are condemning in lebanon is the salvation , is the evidence that we are having tremendous achievement , i think is something that we are just pulling the wool over our eyes . 
john adams gave us some pretty good advice about what we should do overseas . 
and i think that when we have resolutions like this , and we do have them continuously , and we have done them for decades . 
it was a preliminary to our invasion of iraq starting specifically in 1988 ; but adams advised , he made a suggestion and he made a statement , he says : `` america goes not abroad seeking monsters to destroy. '' that statement is so appropriate . 
it looks like we are just looking for problems ; and since the results are so poor and we can not afford it , once again , i want to state my position that i am suggesting not so much that i know or we know exactly what is best for other people . 
it is that precisely we do not know and we do not have the authority , the moral , the legal , the constitutional authority to do what we do . 
and besides , it is a threat to our national security . 
jefferson 's suggestion was for peace , commerce , and honest friendship with all nations and entangling alliances with none . 
and we have way too many entangling alliances , making these huge commitments which will come to an end not because anybody is going to pay much attention to what i say , but they will come to an end because this country is on the verge of bankruptcy . 
we can not continue to raise our national debt by $ 650 billion a year and pretend that we can police the world and at the same time increase entitlements here at home . 
so one day we will have to face up to these realities , and it will all come to an end . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
