mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for this discussion about casinos . 
i want to relate a similar problem that we have in my area in michigan , not directly in my district , but it impinges on my district . 
i believe it is high time that the congress address this particular problem . 
the difficulty my area is a case of a tribe which does not live in the area in which it is seeking to have land placed in trust for it in a community that welcomes it because they think that there will be economic development . 
but , in fact , it is going to have serious impact on areas in my district and on surrounding communities . 
obviously , it is going to be a high-traffic area , with a need for new roads , and of course the casinos do not pay any tax . 
there will be no tax on the land , and this results in a good deal of problems that the local communities and state will not have the funds to take care of . 
i believe it is very important to put a limitation on off-reservation gambling and on cases where a tribe moves into an area which is nowhere near its home and claims that to be an area where they can have land placed in trust , and they then build casinos and other facilities . 
it creates particular problems , for example , for merchants who may be running a supermarket or a gas station , and suddenly there is somebody new in town who is offering the same services , but does not have to pay taxes . 
this is a totally unfair proposition for the local businesses that are there . 
in that sense , i support the effort to put some regulation on this . 
i am not rising in support of the amendment . 
i have been involved in discussions with the previous speakers , and they have much the same problems we do , but i have also discussed it with the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 who chairs the committee on resources , and he has assured me and the rest of us that he has a bill that will deal with this problem and that will provide free and open debate on the house floor . 
rather than deal with it in an appropriations bill , it is my preference that we not consider these amendments at this point , but defer to the gentleman from california ( chairman pombo ) and await the chairman 's bill which he has said that he will attempt to get out of committee and onto the floor before the august recess . 
we have to recognize this is a serious problem for many communities across the country . 
i have only addressed one aspect of it , but there are many other aspects that have to be addressed and understood . 
when the pombo bill comes up , we will have time for a full debate and discussion of all of the other tangential issues as well , including what ability the states have to regulate the location of these facilities , and what ability the states have to negotiate compacts so that the actual costs to the state and local communities are met by these facilities that are moved into an area where the sponsoring individuals have never lived . 
