i thank the gentleman from south carolina for yielding me this time . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to the shameful republican budget . 
yet again the republican leadership neglects the needs of low and middle income families in order to provide hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts to the wealthiest of americans . 
we should not be supporting this unfair budget that leaves people without adequate housing , without opportunities for a decent education or job training , and which passes billions of dollars of debt to our children . 
i am especially concerned about the community development block grant . 
mr. chairman , the community development block grant is something that should have the support of both democrats and republicans . 
this community development block grant is the only source of funds that some of our small towns and cities have to deal with housing , to deal with programs for senior citizens , at-risk youth or to deal with the infrastructure . 
many of the small cities just do not have the money to deal with some of the problems of the sewer systems and roads and other kinds of things . 
but with the community development block grant , they have the flexibility . 
this is a very , very respected program . 
they have the kind of extensive community planning that brings in all of the community groups and organizations , the 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) since the president initially proposed consolidating cdbg and other development programs into one grant program , not only have i received all of these letters from members of city councils and mayors , they have basically said without this program , many of their cities will simply collapse . 
in addition to these cuts , the president has already proposed to cut public housing by 10 percent , section 811 disabled housing by 50 percent , housing opportunities for persons with aids by 14 percent , and other hud programs . 
yet the republican budget resolution proposed to make even more draconian cuts to this function . 
we simply can not afford to do that . 
i urge my colleagues to reject the republican budget and to support a budget that invests in the future of our country . 
this is shameful and unconscionable that they can even bring this budget to the floor . 
i ask for a `` no '' vote on the republican budget and an `` aye '' vote on the democratic budget . 
