madam chairman , i move to strike the last word . 
i rise in support of the weiner/mccotter amendment and really urge all of my colleagues to join them in this important issue . 
their amendment would merely add $ 19 million to the animal and plant health inspection service and raise it to the level that the president put in his own budget . 
this would attack all types of invasive species , including the sudden oak death , the glassy-winged sharpshooter ; but i would like to focus on this terrible asian long-horn beetle , which has had a devastating economic and environmental impact in new york state . 
the asian long-horn beetle was first discovered in 1995 in green point , brooklyn , in the district that i represent . 
we had to cut down every single tree in one of our beautiful parks in brooklyn , and really cut down trees in a whole section of brooklyn in an attempt to contain this terrible invasive species , which we do not know how to get rid of . 
the one approach that we have now is once you discover it , you have to literally chop down the tree , cut it into small pieces and burn it . 
that is the only way they know how to get rid of this terrible bug . 
regrettably , the asian long-horn beetle moved into queens and into manhattan . 
there was a tremendous effort from the city , state and federal government to contain it , to keep it out of central park , which is many people 's favorite spot in new york ; yet , regrettably , 2 months ago , the beetle was spotted in central park . 
we have had to chop down over 4 , 000 trees in new york city in our attempts to contain this invasive species . 
we need to contain it in new york city . 
if it moves into upper new york and to the northeast , it could destroy literally all of the trees ; and it is a problem that really all of us should be concerned about . 
believe me , my colleagues do not want this invasive species in their state . 
work with us in supporting this amendment to contain it and other invasive species that are found in our country . 
our amendment merely raises the amount to the amount that president bush put in the budget , and it is an investment in the economy and the environment of our state . 
i urge my colleagues to support the weiner-mccotter amendment . 
