mr. chairman , i yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. millender-mcdonald ) xz4002750 . 
ms. millender-mcdonald . 
mr. chairman , i thank the ranking member for his kindness in providing time for me and also the chairman for providing the time he has provided to other congressional black caucus members . 
mr. chairman , i am both pleased and proud today on the alternative budget that we , the congressional black caucus , have crafted . 
it is a sensible and fiscally responsible budget that takes into consideration the needs of the average working american . 
this budget does not cater to the wealthy , but addresses the needs of ordinary americans coping with the daily economic challenges that they face such as education , jobs , and housing . 
in short , mr. chairman , the cbc alternative budget works toward eliminating disparities in housing , small businesses , economic , educational , and other disparities created by the administration 's fiscal year 2006 budget . 
first , as we all know , a sound education is a stepping stone to economic opportunity , success , and prosperity . 
the cbc alternative budget has a comprehensive approach to education and training by increasing funding for education and training programs by $ 23.9 billion over the majority budget . 
it provides funds for school construction , fully funds no child left behind , and provides critical funding for head start , gaining early awareness and readiness programs , and individuals with disabilities education act , or idea . 
for those in college , the cbc budget appropriates $ 450 million for pell grants . 
in addition , the cbc budget funds the perkins loan programs , job training , and vocational education programs that are critical in today 's global economy . 
our young people , particularly african americans , are lagging in education when compared to other groups . 
this budget aims to close the achievement gap here at home while making our students more competitive worldwide . 
the cbc understands that federal support for community and regional development helps promote growth in economically distressed urban and rural areas . 
to remedy these economic disparities , the cbc budget ensures that the community development block grant programs will continue to improve housing conditions in low- to moderate-income neighborhoods . 
our budget adds $ 1.5 billion to cdbg grants and improves housing conditions for moderate-income families . 
i can not emphasize enough the importance of cdbg grants . 
they assist cities and counties with creating jobs , increasing economic development opportunities , and expanding homeownership . 
cdbg provides for these services in a way that recognizes the unique needs of distressed areas in rural , urban , and suburban communities . 
it is the signature program for cities and counties to stimulate local economies . 
i know that from experience because i once served as the mayor pro tempore on the city council for carson , california . 
in 2004 , cdbg assisted 168 , 938 households across america with their housing needs , including financial assistance , construction , rehabilitation , and other improvements . 
at least 95 percent of the funds support activities benefiting low- and moderate-income families . 
the alternative cbc budget also allocates funding to the small business administration and the manufacturing extension partnership and provides additional funding for adult training and dislocated workers programs . 
by supporting these programs , the cbc is working to close the existing economic disparities in the united states and to help entrepreneurs and ordinary americans realize the american dream . 
the cbc alternative budget also allocates additional funding for enforcement initiatives such as juvenile justice and prison reentry programs . 
the cbc understands we need to protect the homeland , and our budget adds $ 2 billion to meet urgent homeland security needs that face our nation . 
the alternative budget therefore devotes additional resources for guarding against terrorist attacks through our rail and ports , including cargo screening that prevents nuclear or radiological weapons from entering the united states . 
it also supports essential funding for the centers for disease control to help us prepare for a possible biological attack . 
the cbc alternative budget ensures that cities , towns , and hamlets will receive the resources that are urgently needed to protect our citizens , resources that are absolutely needed for our cities and towns . 
we can accomplish this , all of these priorities , by reducing the tax cuts from 2001 and 2003 from an individual 's adjusted gross income that exceeds $ 200 , 000 and closing tax loopholes . 
i urge all of my colleagues to support this budget . 
