mr. chairman , actually , it sounds like the author of this amendment does not quite understand the need to preserve our beautiful coastline . 
the coast of marin and sonoma counties , my district , is one of the most biologically productive regions in the world . 
while it comprises only 1 percent of the ocean , it is home to 20 percent of the world 's fish . 
the coastal estuaries are important passages for endangered salmon , steelhead , essential haulouts for seals and sea lions , and prolific nurseries for hundreds of aquatic species . 
the coastal communities in my district rely on tourism and the fishing industry that could be severely hurt if offshore oil drilling and gas drilling were permitted off our coasts . 
the people who live in my district do not and will not support offshore drilling . 
they realize that we need an energy policy that focuses on investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources , not oil rigs , not an endless depletion of our natural resources . 
mr. chairman , here we go again . 
for some reason , the majority party feels that if we just keep drilling for more gas then our emergency crisis will be over . 
unfortunately , they are n't looking for a solution to our energy crisis and rising gas prices , instead , they are looking to line the pockets of big oil companies by supporting offshore oil drillings . 
let 's not forget the irrevocable damage to our environment that offshore drilling causes . 
this devastation can be seen in the gulf of mexico where ocs pipelines crossing coastal wetlands are estimated to have destroyed more coastal sale marsh than can be found in the stretch of coastal land running from new jersey through maine . 
it sounds like the author of this amendment does n't understand the need to preserve our beautiful coastlines . 
but , the people that i am so fortunate to represent in marin and sonoma counties do understand . 
they get it . 
the coast of marin and sonoma county in my district is one of the most biologically productive regions in the world . 
while it compromises only one percent of the ocean , it is home to 20 percent of the world 's fish . 
the coastal estuaries are important passages for endangered salmon and steelhead , essential haulouts for seals and sea lions , and prolific nurseries for hundreds of aquatic species . 
the coastal communities in my district rely on tourism and fishing -- industries that could be severely hurt if offshore drilling was permitted off of our coast . 
if you were to visit this beautiful stretch of coast , you would understand why the people who live in my district do n't and wo n't support offshore drilling . 
they realize that we need an energy policy that focuses on investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy source , not oilrigs and the endless depletion of our natural resources . 
mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing the peterson amendment . 
