mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 3010 , the fiscal year 2006 appropriations act for the departments of labor , health and human services and education . 
h.r. 3010 severely cuts education , health care , and human services that are crucial to north carolina and to the country . 
as the only former state schools chief serving in congress , i know firsthand the devastating effects that these education cuts will have . 
at a time when we are asking our schools to do more than ever , h.r. 3010 cuts no child left behind funding by $ 784 million below last year 's level and makes it impossible for our schools to meet high standards of accountability . 
these cuts will destroy the morale of our teachers , parents and students . 
america 's working families are struggling to pay record costs for college costs for college tuition and expenses . 
last november , president bush made a campaign promise to increase funding for pell grants and invest in higher education . 
unfortunately , this bill freezes pell grants and other student financial aid programs for the fourth year in a row , even though college costs have increased by 34 percent since 2001 . 
america needs a highly trained and educated workforce to compete in the global marketplace of the 21st century , but h.r. 3010 slashes funding for education at all levels and strains school budgets . 
the failure of h.r. 3010 to represent the values of the american people extends beyond the walls of the classroom . 
h.r. 3010 slashes funding for community health centers that assist the almost 46 million uninsured americans , and underfunds the centers for disease control as we face the possibility of a flu pandemic . 
and as winter approaches with expected record prices to heat their homes , h.r. 3010 fails to increase funding for liheap home heating assistance , which helps keep the heat on for low-income seniors and children . 
mr. speaker , h.r. 3010 fails to represent the priorities of the american people . 
i urge my colleagues to vote against this bad bill and restore funding for essential services for our families . 
