madam chairman , i rise in support of the slaughter/shays/dicks/leach/price amendment . 
madam chairman , i rise today in strong support of the slaughter-shays-dicks-leach-price amendment to provide much needed funds for the national endowment for the arts and the national endowment for the humanities . 
this is a long overdue and a modest funding increase to build programs that use the strength of the arts and our nation 's cultural life to enhance communities in every state and every county around america . 
the additional funds provided through this amendment would keep intact the very successful challenge america program , which brings the arts to rural communities and inner-city neighborhoods whose limited resources do n't always allow for community arts programs . 
in 2004 , the challenge america program provided grants to towns and cities in 99 % of congressional districts for jazz and blues festivals , showcases for regional musicians and artists , and public-private partnerships that bring the arts into local schools . 
dozens of studies have demonstrated the significant positive effect of arts education on students ' academic performance , self esteem , and behavior , and the challenge america grants are an excellent mechanism to bring the arts to students who can greatly benefit from that exposure . 
similarly , the neh serves to advance the nation 's scholarly and cultural life . 
the additional funding contained in this amendment would enable neh to improve the quality of humanities education to america 's school children and college students , offer lifelong learning opportunities through a range of public programs , and support new projects that encourage americans to discover their storied and inspiring national heritage . 
it is clear that increasing funding for the arts and humanities is among the best investments that we , as a society , can make . 
they help our children learn . 
they give the elderly sustenance . 
they power economic development in regions that are down and out . 
they tie our diverse society and country together . 
will the projects that would be sponsored by this increase in funding help defend our country ? 
probably not , but they will make our country more worth defending . 
i urge my colleagues to support this amendment . 
