mr. speaker , the work of this subcommittee has always reflected our priorities as a nation , helping provide services that help us meet our most basic needs , health , our children 's education , our scientific research , challenges only the federal government has the ability , the capacity and the resources to help us meet . 
the problem with the funding in this conference report is that it fails to meet that threshold . 
worker training , funded at levels below last year . 
the national institutes of health , where this subcommittee made historic progress , doubling our investment in medical research . 
name the disease , childhood leukemia , alzheimer 's , parkinson 's , hiv , the work of the nih has prolonged or improved the life of every single american . 
the funding level for the national institutes of health does not even meet inflation . 
health professions are cut in half . 
head start is funding below last year 's level . 
and with the cost of a college education skyrocketing , this conference report flat funds pell grants , meaning the maximum award is exactly the same as it was last year . 
funding for the low income home energy assistance program , at last year 's level , will prove disastrous for low income families . 
this bill fails to invest in any of the priorities important to the american people . 
and the american people are tired of the congress spending trillions in tax cuts for the wealthiest americans at the same time they are told we simply do not have the resources to invest in things that impact their daily lives . 
we can make those investments , but only , only if we make them a priority . 
that is what the american people want and expect from their government . 
you ask any middle class family what is more important to them , tax cuts for wealthy americans , or lowering the cost of health care , home heating costs or college . 
they will tell you they want something that makes a difference in their lives and their family 's lives . 
vote against this conference report . 
