mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the arts amendment , however , in strong opposition to this bill 's environmental shortcomings . 
first , i want to applaud the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter ) xz4003780 and the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. shays ) xz4003700 , who are the co-chairs of our arts caucus , and their staffs for their leadership on this issue . 
providing for adequate resources to the national endowment for the humanities , which is the largest single funder of humanities programs in our country , and to the national endowment for the arts , the infrastructure for private nonprofit and federal arts initiatives , this should really be a very high priority for this body . 
mr. chairman , my district , the ninth congressional district of california , ranks 24th in the country in the number of arts businesses and 46th in the country in the number of arts employees . 
since we debated this amendment last year , there are 113 more arts-related businesses in my district , and that translates into more jobs for my constituents . 
across the country there are more than 578 , 000 arts-centered businesses . 
this is really not a marginal group . 
the arts and humanities do constitute the pulse of our nation . 
supporting this amendment is critical and should be noncontroversial . 
we already know that the economic downturn and our budget crisis are crippling arts initiatives all over this country . 
many who are eager to restrict funding for the nea and neh forget that organizations which receive grants for these institutions include the museums , performing and visual arts , film , radio , television , design , publishing , and educational facilities in all of our districts . 
in oakland , one of the cities in my district , most arts education programs continue to face extinction , and the students in these communities are the ones who stand to benefit the most from arts education initiatives . 
performance and visual arts offer people of all ages , ethnic and social and economic backgrounds opportunities for new experiences and constructive retreats . 
for example , the berkeley-based california shakespeare theater , an arts education grants recipient , will offer student matinees and arts integration programs this year , which support student achievement and creativity and teacher professional development for some of the most underserved communities in my district . 
clearly , a vote against this amendment , which is endorsed by our bipartisan arts caucus , is really a vote against the vital thread which sustains the pulse of our country . 
the long-term economic and social impact of a minute $ 10 million increase for the nea and a $ 5 million increase for the neh will be felt for generations . 
it is the very least we can do to promote and preserve american culture and heritage . 
it should not be controversial . 
the facts speak for themselves . 
if we cut arts funding , we cut jobs and opportunities for all . 
we all need to support the arts caucus bipartisan amendment . 
i am appalled , however , by what this bill proposes to do to america 's environment . 
once more we are forced to vote on an interior appropriations bill that is nothing less than an environmental disaster . 
this bill cuts funding for the epa by $ 318 million . 
this bill cuts $ 241 million for the clean water state revolving fund , which is a 37 percent reduction for california . 
this bill eliminates $ 190 million for the land and water conservation fund . 
and this bill fails to make critical infrastructure investments in our national parks system . 
overall , this bill represents a 3 percent cut in funding for our environmental programs and once again points to the misplaced priorities of this administration . 
we need a bill that makes a strong commitment to protect the environment , our children 's health , and our future . 
unfortunately , this bill does not make that commitment . 
