i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
mr. chairman , we have now come down to two budgets : one offered by the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle ) and the majority and the most fiscally responsible budget we have seen in quite some time here ; and another budget that wants to tax more and spend more , and that is their answer to the nation 's fiscal woes . 
clearly , we agree that this nation has a deficit and a deficit that is too large . 
but those on the other side of the aisle seem to act like spending has nothing to do with the equation in the deficit . 
we have been spending money here at over twice the rate of inflation , 50 percent faster . 
the federal budget has been growing 50 percent faster than the family budget . 
we are on an unsustainable growth path on the growth of federal government . 
we must do something to control the growth of federal government . 
now , previous speakers , i believe , have used the term `` auto pilot , '' that this budget puts the nation on auto pilot . 
well , let me tell you about the auto pilot that their budget puts this nation on . 
that is an auto pilot that , if we do not do anything about spending , according to the general accounting office we are heading to a future where we will have to double federal taxes or cut federal spending by 50 percent . 
well , they do not want to cut any federal spending . 
so what that means is we are on auto pilot to double federal taxes on the american family . 
now , frankly , on our side , we have done our part . 
tax revenues are up . 
we listened to the other side , and they talk about all the massive tax cuts . 
well , i am sitting here , mr. chairman , and i have the latest reports out of the congressional budget office . 
and guess what ? 
we have cut marginal tax rates on the american family on small businesses . 
and guess what ? 
tax revenues have increased . 
tax revenues are up . 
people go out and they save more and they invest more and they start small businesses . 
i was in jacksonville , texas , a small town in my district , not too long ago and visited with a small business there that does aluminum die casting . 
prior to the bush tax relief package , they were getting ready because of competitive pressures to have to lay off two people . 
but because of tax relief , they were able to modernize their plant and equipment , and instead of laying off two people , they hired three new people . 
now , that is five people that could have been on welfare , five people that could have been on unemployment . 
but instead , five people who represent part of that over two million new jobs that have been created in america , five people that are paying in taxes , as opposed to taking out . 
and that is why we see that tax revenues have increased . 
and so , frankly , tax relief has been part of the deficit solution . 
and even if it were not , we are talking about a $ 2.6 trillion budget . 
and if you look at the line item , tax relief is $ 17 billion . 
now , if you do the math , that means that tax relief is less than 1 percent of this federal budget . 
so even if it was not bringing in new revenues to the government , how could tax relief amount to all of this problem ? 
the challenge has been on the spending side . 
just look over the last 15 years : international affairs up 93 percent , agriculture up 165 percent , transportation 78 percent , education 95 percent . 
and the list goes on and on and on . 
now , often we get good things for our tax expenditures . 
we can have student loans ; we can have kevlar vests for our soldiers . 
but , unfortunately , quite often we do not get good things for our tax expenditures . 
sometimes we get wheelchairs from medicare that cost five times as much as those of the va . 
sometimes we get multimillion dollar studies of how college students decorate their dorms . 
we are talking about reducing the growth rate of government . 
and i can not believe , and no american family would ever believe , that you can not find seven-tenths of 1 percent , less than 1 percent , of waste or fraud or abuse or duplication . 
american families would laugh at that . 
and if we do not do this , mr. chairman , we are looking at this future , this auto pilot future that i believe is fiscally immoral , that will double taxes on our children and grandchildren . 
we need a budget , not for the next election ; we need a budget for the next generation . 
and that is why i so strongly support the committee budget , the gentleman from iowa ( chairman nussle 's ) budget , because it is that fiscally responsible budget for the next generation . 
