mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i will vote against this budget , and let me say why . 
it is because of my responsibility and duty to protect the base bill , the base resolution , the product that was worked and crafted in a very genuine way through the committee process , one that has the support of our majority , one that has the support of our leadership , one that has the support of our chairman , and one that i dare say has , and i believe has , the support of my friends who bring forth the budget resolution tonight . 
as i said before when the congressional black caucus came forth , anyone who has the guts to come out here with their own budget i have to applaud . 
i may oppose it , but i have to applaud it because i know what it takes to put together a budget . 
whether the alternative budget has one person who supports it or 80 members or 218 members to support it , i commend the coalition for coming forth with their budget . 
i said the same to the congressional black caucus because they have done this in a very responsible way every year i have been in congress and for many year before . 
i really mean that . 
anyone who is willing to put the sweat equity into it gets my admiration . 
i reluctantly oppose this alternative because if given the opportunity to have a perfect world could we , should we work for more spending control ? 
yes , there is no question . 
for all of the haranguing that happens out here about the cuts , we know there are a lot more weeds in the garden we could pull ; we know there is more reform that we could drive . 
we know we could work harder and probably find more spending to control . 
we have some practicalities , however . 
one is we have some committees that have to do the work of achieving those reforms . 
i have worked with each one of those committees and the committee chairmen to arrange the agreements which bring the base resolution here today ; and i respect that process , and i will support that process . 
in addition , we have a president who is for really i think the first time since i have been in congress willing to step up during a very challenging time in our nation 's history when we are at war and say even though it would be easy to use the war as an excuse and not worry about what is happening on the domestic side , the president of the united states has said we are going to control spending , work on the entitlement programs , and try to reform the programs and to meet the needs out there . 
the fact that the rsc comes forward with a budget that goes a little further , as i say , i respect that ; but i do not think that we are going to get the support behind it that we need in order to get it done . 
at the end of the day , that is what we need . 
we need the budget to pass so we have something to enforce . 
i want to speak to that briefly because as congressional watchers may have seen or misinterpreted , the intramural discussion that went on and fighting that may have seemed to be happening between friends and colleagues , i interpret what the rsc was doing , the republican study committee was doing with regard to enforcement to be the exact right attitude to have . 
that is if you are going to do the work of having a budget , then let us enforce it . 
the good news from my standpoint is last year when we were not able to get a budget through both bodies , the house took the version we passed , we deemed it , and we enforced it . 
we stuck to it . 
at the final analysis of the congressional budget office when all of the smoke cleared and they finally were able to close all of the books , you know what we blew that budget by , a $ 2.4 trillion budget , and we missed it by $ 400 million . 
now members could say we missed it , but i would say for not having a budget in both the house and senate and not having the budget being the force of law with the president , i would say that is a pretty good track record and one that i give a lot of credit to our speaker , in particular , for having accomplished . 
i give them much credit not only on the work product of coming forward with a budget , but also their desire to enforce it . 
i stand ready to work shoulder to shoulder and side by side with them as we not only get that budget done , but enforce the budget the rest of the year . 
i commend them on their work product , and i reluctantly will vote against their budget . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
