mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the resolution under consideration . 
as a former state legislator , i know how important federal government investments are . 
they allow state and local governments to meet our obligations without assuming the responsibility for federal shortfalls or passing those costs along to local taxpayers . 
federal investments acknowledge the shared responsibility for promoting economic growth , meeting health needs and ensuring educational opportunity . 
i strongly believe that the federal government must recognize its obligations , work within budgetary limits to meet them and to make smart investments focused on the nation 's current and future fiscal well-being . 
unfortunately , the budget resolution before us does not meet these simple tests . 
instead , it prioritizes tax cuts to the wealthiest americans and largest corporations over meeting our obligations to average americans . 
it fails to live within available revenues and increases future deficits . 
i fought for a seat on the committee on the budget because my constituents want me to be an advocate for strong fiscal discipline and wise federal spending . 
during committee on the budget consideration of this budget resolution , i was proud to join my democratic colleagues in putting forward amendments aimed at refocusing our spending and investments on the priorities that matter to the everyday lives of all americans : creating and keeping jobs , supporting community development and providing for a safe and secure homeland . 
specifically , i led the effort to better ensure adequate funding for police , first responders and security at our ports . 
democrats and republicans alike agree that our nation 's top priority is keeping americans and this nation safe . 
after all , nothing else will matter if we can not protect the people of this country right here at home . 
yet , at the same time , fire departments , police forces , ports and rail stations across the nation are ramping up efforts to implement safety measures and better prepare for any kind of terrorist incident or extreme emergency . 
this budget proposes cutting the very programs that will help them meet these responsibilities . 
despite these dire warnings of security at our ports in particular , this budget falls $ 4.7 billion short of what the coast guard estimates it would cost to secure our ports . 
despite the fact that we can not afford our first responders to be unprepared , this resolution recommends a reduction of $ 560 million in first responder funding . 
let me say , mr. chairman , that we must do better , that we have to make sure that our first responders at our ports meet the obligations to all americans , that we do all that we can to make sure that our government , the federal government , helps our local communities be strong and be safe . 
