mr. chairman , i would like to associate my comments with the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 . 
the proponents of this say that it is oil and gas . 
we are not talking oil . 
if you want to poke a hole in the ground in oklahoma or you want to do it in land or even in anwr , where they have the technology not to cause the spills , that is fine . 
i will support you , or clean coal , i will support you . 
i understand the plight the farmers have with the cost of natural gas and the fertilizer problem that they have . 
i will work with the gentleman on that as well . 
they say , well , let us do it in the gulf of mexico , so we are going to do to mexicans what we want to do for us ? 
if you poke a hole in the earth , you are going to get oil up . 
i do not know if you have ever come to long beach , you better bring kerosene with you if you go on our beaches . 
because you take your dog or you walk along those beaches , the bottom of your feet are solid oil . 
you go poking holes in that , the economy of california is critical to tourism . 
we have the best beaches , better than washington state . 
we have the best weather , and we invite you to come spend your money in california , but you are not going to come if we start poking holes in the bottom of the pacific along the coast as the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 says . 
i know the heart and the effort of the gentleman that is offering this amendment , and i know why he is doing it and i empathize with him , but it would destroy the california economy and environment as well as our beaches . 
we have got beautiful lagoons . 
we have got the most beautiful lagoons in the world , and wetlands . 
i am not an extreme environmentalist , but those are , no kidding , true wetlands ; and the national academy of science says whether you are drilling for oil or gas off the california coast , you are going to , not maybe , you are going to hurt the wildlife , you are going to destroy those lagoons , and then we are going to end up like long beach with oil all over our beaches and hurt our economy . 
so i oppose the gentleman 's amendment . 
