mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt ) xz4003860 for yielding me this time and for his work in developing a budget for all americans . 
every year the administration and congress are taxed with developing a budget that reflects our nation 's priorities in spending , priorities that reflect our country 's values . 
unfortunately , the budget resolution we have before us , and the values it represents insults the true values of the american people , given the extensive cuts to first responders , community policing , veterans benefits , health care , and education funding . 
under the republican leadership the entire budget process has become a complete fraud on the american people . 
this budget adds more than $ 4 trillion to the deficit in the next 10 years , without even including the enormous costs that have been left out of the budget . 
it is past time for this house to be honest and restore fiscal responsibility to this process and to the nation , the same fiscal responsibility that each of our constituents face when they try to balance their household and business budgets . 
unfortunately , this budget shows that the republican congress does not share the values of the american people . 
what type of values would cut funding to the fire act grant program which helps meet the basic needs of firefighters by 30 percent ? 
firefighters on the front lines of the war on terror in new jersey stand to lose $ 4 million under this resolution , which means they will have less protective clothing , fewer portable radios than they need to protect our citizens . 
what type of values would slash funding to the cop program by 95 percent , a program that has put over 4 , 800 police officers on the street in new jersey ? 
in doing so , this budget dismantles a critical instrument in new jersey 's fight against crime . 
what type of values would raise health costs for many of the over 620 , 000 veterans in new jersey , increasing drug copayments and imposing new enrollment fees that will cost veterans more than $ 2 billion over 5 years and drive more than 200 , 000 veterans out of the system entirely ? 
what type of values would cut discretionary health programs by 6 percent and slash medicaid by billions of dollars ? 
new jersey would lose more than $ 100 million per year in federal medicaid funding , enough funding to provide health coverage to 6 , 400 seniors or 34 , 000 children . 
and what type of values would underfund education and , specifically , the no child left behind act by over $ 12 billion , creating a 4-year deficit between what was promised and what was actually delivered of $ 39 billion ? 
if this budget passes , over 53 , 000 children in new jersey will go without promised help in reading and math and 34 , 000 will no longer be able to enroll in the afterschool programs that not only keep kids safe but also boost academic achievement . 
that is why the democratic substitute will restore fiscal responsibility to secure our homeland , provide for america 's seniors and veterans , fund education initiatives to guarantee our children 's future success in an ever increasingly competitive world and lay the foundation for a society that truly reflects our values and our commitment to a better more prosperous and stronger america . 
i urge my colleagues to support the democratic substitute and vote down the woefully inadequate republican budget . 
