mr. chairman , i want to personally thank the gentleman from south carolina ( mr. spratt ) xz4003860 so much for the work that he has done in having the record make it clear that we in the house of representatives did have an alternative to what was presented to us . 
there is a lot of talk about moral values that we hear about politically ; but i do not care what your religious background is , there are always these stories about the sick and the poor in need ; and on the other side , the option is for the rich and the greedy and the insensitive . 
you do not have to be a republican or a democrat when you look at the document that was placed before us by the majority and then to take a look at the compassion and the common sense that is involved in the alternative that the gentleman from south carolina and his team have brought to us . 
but i am not here to talk about compassion . 
i am too old to believe that it is going to change . 
i am here to talk about national security , national security at a time that we are going through these economic deficits . 
it would just seem to me that it would make a lot of sense if we invested in our young people that are going to school , to make them more productive and make them tax-paying . 
it seems to me it would make a lot of sense to invest in someone 's health so that they would not have to go to community centers , which are being cut back , that they would not have to go into the hospitals . 
it seems to me that we would have a sense of national security by thanking our veterans who fight the war , keep the spirits up and not tax them for getting sick or having ailments . 
it seems to me that in the final analysis , what we have done is borrow money and ask that we make these tremendous tax cuts permanent and whatever our kids get and our grandchildren get will be the debt that this body can possibly place on them . 
i just hope that somewhere along the line someone would say that if you really care about this country , that you will care about all of its people , you will be concerned about its working people and be concerned in making social security something that will be guaranteed for them because we promised them that it would be . 
but i do not think that anyone takes this budget seriously , not if you leave out of it the alternative minimum tax , which no one would want to be able to tell their constituents that this $ 600 billion tax increase that we are going to place on them , that we did not mean to do it ; and no matter how many cities the president goes to , no one would believe that he was sincere about reforming the social security system when he knows , republicans know , democrats know , that it is going to take money to do this and that is not in the budget . 
and there are so many other things that are left out . 
even the money that is paid into social security , that is not counted as a part of our debt . 
but one day , just one day , historians or maybe our kids and grandkids are going to ask each and every one of us , when this country was going into this deficit hellhole and when the poor were becoming poorer and the sick , we were cutting their benefits , what were you doing and how were you voting , and i am glad that we will have an opportunity just not to be able to vote against what the majority has given us , but that we have an alternative that the gentleman from south carolina and the minorities on the budget committee and so many others have worked together to say that we are proud to be americans , we are proud to be members of congress , and we are proud that we voted the right way . 
