mr. chairman , i move to strike the requisite number of words . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this amendment proposed by my colleague from oregon . 
i only wish i had known in advance the gentleman was going to offer this amendment because it is specifically targeted toward my district , a tribe in my district , that is seeking to gain approval of a compact and take land into trust . 
warm springs tribe is not a family of five that has gone out shopping somewhere in some other state for land . 
there are 4 , 400 tribal members who are suffering on the reservation . 
they have worked diligently with the communities involved . 
they have land in the scenic columbia river gorge that is in trust and was in trust prior to the passage of igra , and it is on a hillside where they have plans where they could build , and they could do that today . 
but that land would scar the beauty of the scenic columbia river gorge , which is my home and has been my home all of my life . 
this tribe , instead , looked to another area , and my colleague from oregon suggests that the area they looked at is the crown jewel of the gorge . 
mr. chairman , this is port property zoned for industrial use , leveled out with dredge tailings from the construction of the second lock at bonneville dam , all right , as opposed to an area up on a side hill that is timbered and beautiful where they already have land . 
so they worked with the local community which supports them locating there . 
they reached a compact with the democratic governor in a long and protracted discussion . 
that compact is now before the secretary . 
my colleague has on more than one occasion mentioned an acid rain study . 
we have looked at that , and he should know because we know it was done over a 4-month period one with readings at a little town in wishram , washington , during the winter when it is foggy in the gorge . 
so there is much more to that story that i will not get into today , but i suggest the gentleman take another look at that study . 
i grew up in the gorge . 
we are the wind-surfing , kite-boarding capital of the world . 
and in the summer , if you want to come and find where the wind blows , come to the gorge and enjoy the great recreational opportunities , and it blows from the west . 
the west is where the great urban center of our wonderful state is , where there are traffic problems and industrial problems ; and i tell members that because if there is a problem with pollution in the gorge , it is not coming from the east , it is coming from the west . 
so i urge members to oppose this amendment . 
i think the chairman of our committee on resources has a much more prudent approach , to look at this issue on a broader scale , to see what is the best policy for this nation to follow when it comes to dealing with these issues of tribal casinos on or off reservation . 
but to move an amendment like this with very little notice , if any , on an appropriations bill , i would dare say , is not appropriate . 
