mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , before voting on this budget resolution , everyone should ask , what does it do to education , what does it do to the development of our communities , what does it do for veterans health care , and what does it do to the bottom line ? 
in seeking an answer to those questions , i would recommend that you look no further than a publication which came to your offices yesterday from the cbo , fresh off the press . 
read table 1.1 , page 2 , and look in the far upper right-hand corner , and you will see the amount of debt we will incur over the next 10 years if this budget , which is essentially the president 's budget , is adopted and implemented : $ 5.135 trillion in additional debt . 
but that is without funding the war in iraq after 2005 . 
it is without fixing the alternative minimum tax estimated to cut revenues by $ 640 billion . 
and it is without reflecting one cent for social security privatization which the administration acknowledges to be a cost of $ 754 billion between 2009 and 2015 . 
adjust for these additional costs and this budget will add $ 7 trillion to the national debt over the next 10 years . 
it will double the debt . 
if that is the legacy you want to leave your children and your grandchildren , then vote for this bill . 
but if you want to put the budget back on a path to balance as it was in the year 2000 , if you want to avoid the accumulation of that mountain of debt , then vote for the spratt or democratic alternative . 
our budget resolution gets to balance by the year 2012 . 
it accumulates $ 1.7 trillion less in debt over the next 10 years than the republican budget base bill . 
ours also protects priorities , our children 's education , our veterans , health care , our communities ' development , and it supports defense , fully funds it at the same level as theirs , and it applies a rule proven to work called the pay-as-you-go rule . 
this rule rigorously applied will do more for deficit reduction , exponentially more than the republican resolution for all its huffing and puffing can ever purport to do . 
the right vote here is for the spratt amendment or substitute , the democratic substitute , and against the base bill , the republican budget resolution . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
