mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to the amendment offered by mr. rehberg and ms. hooley , i applaud chairman bonilla for including a provision in the agriculture appropriations bill that would limit usda 's funding for implementing the mandatory country-of-origin labeling law for meat and meat products . 
the country-of-origin labeling laws as currently written clearly requires more congressional attention before going into effect by september 30 , 2006 . 
as a member of the agriculture committee and as chairman of the livestock and horticulture subcommittee , i have held hearings to discuss how mandatory country-of-origin labeling will affect the entire livestock industry . 
i have personally heard the numerous concerns of producers , processors , suppliers , and retailers in trying to implement this onerous program . 
these hearings raised many questions , and the livestock witnesses specifically pointed out the tremendous potential for increased costs and unintended consequences . 
all of the witnesses , regardless of being for or against country-of-origin labeling , unanimously stated that this is not a food safety issue but a marketing issue . 
saying labeling is needed because of recent cases of bse , for example , is bogus -- especially since this particular disease does not occur in the muscle cuts we consume ! 
i have also heard concerns from many of my constituents in north carolina about this issue . 
i can tell you that not one of them has said this law will bring them additional revenue or market advantages . 
they all express their deep concern that this law will instead cause significant burdens and headaches in order to be in compliance with the law . 
having participated in the hearings and listening to the worries of my constituents , i firmly believe a voluntary approach is a better solution . 
i am pleased to cosponsor the meat promotion act introduced by agriculture committee chairman goodlatte which requires the secretary of agriculture to establish a voluntary program for labeling meat and meat products . 
i believe this legislation better fits the true intent of country-of-origin labeling -- to maximize producer benefits and avoid the costs and regulatory intrusions that a government-mandated program would entail . 
unfortunately , a `` fire , ready , aim '' approach led to the creation of the current mandatory country-of-origin labeling law . 
this issue clearly needs further attention and delaying the implementation of the law for meat and meat products is a step in the right direction . 
i would like to reiterate that the provision included in the agriculture appropriations bill only affects meat and meat products . 
i urge my colleagues to support the appropriations bill and reject the rehberg-hooley amendment . 
