mr. chairman , i yield myself 5 minutes . 
first let me compliment my friend from texas ( mr. cuellar ) xz4006570 , a new member of the committee . 
i appreciate his service . 
we have worked together on a number of issues . 
but let me give a slightly different tack from what he was suggesting with regard to our record on education because i think it is important for us to see what has come before . 
first , with regard to education totals , as you can see , we have grown on an average of 9 percent a year for the last 5 years . 
there are not many programs around washington that have grown that fast . 
homeland security is the only other department that has grown at that rate . 
nine percent . 
this is the total we have spent for education . 
again , is it enough ? 
you might say no . 
could we always spend more ? 
of course . 
but i want to put it in perspective . 
nine percent annual growth over the last 5 years . 
title i , the main program that affects no child left behind , has grown 10 percent per year since 2000 and was funded at $ 12 billion for fiscal year 2005 . 
that annual growth , again , every year has gone up . 
pell grants has grown 10 percent per year since 2000 and $ 12.4 billion in this fiscal year . 
no child left behind has grown at 40 percent under president bush . 
i understand there will always be this debate that programs are authorized at one level and then they are appropriated at yet another level . 
everyone around here knows this , but it is a game that we play with our constituents . 
there is almost no program that is funded at its authorized level . 
that is not a floor . 
it is a ceiling . 
that is always the way it has been approached in congress . 
special education , a program that i feel a personal affinity toward and it was a personal goal and leadership that i took with regard to special education to our states and to our schools and to our classrooms and for our kids with special needs , i am proud of what we have done . 
these green charts do not mean anything compared to what it has meant in the lives of the kids that are receiving a quality education and it has unlocked opportunity for them that is boundless . 
that is because we have invested some resources there . 
i just want to end with this . 
it is not only about the money . 
we come down here with these green bar charts as if to say , if i spend this much it means that i do n't care and if i spend this much it means that i care a little more , or here i am caring a little bit more now . 
watch out , here i am caring some more . 
it is getting higher . 
i am caring even more . 
and the more we spend , the more we care . 
and the more we invest , the more we care . 
and we measure by green charts the compassion , the caring , the value , as if money alone is the only measure . 
i have got to tell my colleagues something . 
take special education . 
go talk to any one of their teachers back home in the special education classroom and ask them whether they have seen these increases in their classrooms . 
do the members know what is going on , mr. chairman ? 
the states are taking that money , and it is not getting through their bureaucracy . 
we are getting this money out of washington , but it is not getting to the classroom teacher teaching our child . 
so their chart may look a little bit bigger ; our chart may look a little bit bigger , and our charts look great , and if i care at $ 5 and they care at $ 6 , maybe they care $ 1 more , and we get into all of this . 
and we are not looking at the results . 
we need to look at the results of these programs and find out whether they are getting to the kids in the classrooms . 
and i have got to tell my colleagues right now it is not . 
so we have got to provide the oversight . 
it can not just be about the money . 
and that is the last chart i want to show . 
for all of the chest beating about education and the priority , see that little red line of the total amount spent on education in our country ? 
that is what the federal government kicks in . 
we are talking , on any given day , like about 6 percent . 
the people who are really doing the work here are our local school boards , our local state legislators , our local parents and community leaders . 
they are kicking in all this amount right here . 
that is what is being kicked in . 
it is this little red part that we all of a sudden think is so important and that we beat our chests about . 
the federal government is not going to solve education , mr. chairman . 
not with a big red line or a little red line or with this money or that amount of money . 
it is not about the money . 
it is about results . 
we have got to focus on results in education , and this budget accomplishes that . 
