mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from new york for yielding me this time . 
as i hear this discussion move forward , i find it nothing short of absolutely amazing that anybody can rise to defend the current system . 
the pharmaceutical industry in this country is corrupt from top to bottom . 
they have corrupted the food and drug administration . 
they have corrupted academia to the point where they pay anybody that might ever issue an opinion about any of their products , and this continues to get worse day by day . 
we have evidence to all of these things , and it is absolutely and utterly ridiculous that we do not hold fda accountable to provide a system of unbiased opinions so that the american people can get a safe product . 
we have seen the results of this corrupt system and the willingness of our own government to allow the pharmaceutical industry to continue to rob our own people , and it goes on and on and on . 
it is wrong . 
it does not make any sense . 
it puts the public health at risk . 
we just had a big debate on whether or not to label meat and where it comes from . 
we know what these drugs will do , we have plenty of people that know what they will do , and when we put the information out there , anybody can figure it out . 
you do not have to be all broke out in brilliance to know when this stuff is bad . 
but when you are on the payroll of these companies , folks just kind of seem to have a little trouble saying , this is a terrible drug and we do not want to put it on the market . 
it is a bad idea . 
i am the only registered pharmacist in the united states congress , and it is astounding to me to see what has happened to this industry in the last 30 years and the willingness for them to take advantage of the american people over and over and over again . 
mr. chairman , if this body is going to do anything to serve the public health and welfare of our people on this day , we should pass this amendment , and i thank the gentleman from new york for courageously bringing it to the floor of this house . 
