mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to the labor , health & amp ; human services and education appropriations bill before us . 
this bill quite simply fails to address the priorities of the american people . 
my concerns about specific cuts in this bill are many . 
it cuts funding for no child left behind , an already vastly underfunded mandate ; it fails to offer even the small increase in the maximum pell grant that was established in the house bill ; and it sets a funding level for the national institutes of health that would decrease the number of federal research grants for the second year in a row . 
the consequences of this bill are far-reaching . 
major cutbacks in the areas of education and health care will have a tremendous economic impact on our nation . 
i would like to speak briefly about what my constituents have told me is important to them . 
rhode islanders , like all americans , are concerned about health care . 
i have heard from many of them in recent weeks , in opposition to the devastating cuts to the title vii health professions programs . 
while the administration has made it clear that community health centers are a priority to them , this bill nearly eliminates the very programs that health centers rely on to recruit nurses to work in areas that are facing acute professional shortages and train medical students to work with underserved populations . 
with 45 million uninsured americans , we can not afford to eliminate programs targeted at meeting the needs of the uninsured or remove the support systems that exist for those doctors and nurses who are serving in areas where there is a shortage of professional health services . 
rhode islanders are also concerned about unemployment . 
with 7.4 million unemployed americans , this conference agreement cuts critical services for the unemployed , including job training grants and unemployment insurance offices . 
adult training grants , which provide training and related education and employment services to economically disadvantaged adults , are cut by $ 31 million -- providing the lowest level of funding for these training grants in a decade . 
youth training grants , which offer states the opportunity to develop on-the-job training and provide exposure to a wide variety of promising career paths for disadvantaged youth are cut by $ 36 million , offering 12 , 000 less at-risk youth the opportunity to earn a high school diploma and find meaningful employment . 
when congress passed h. con . 
res. 95 , the budget conference report , the republican leadership set the stage for these devastating cuts . 
this legislation makes it clear that tax cuts for the wealthy will continue to be paid for by slashing programs that rhode islanders depend on . 
i urge my colleagues to reject h.r. 3010 . 
