mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me time . 
i especially thank the chairman for his leadership on bringing this legislation to the floor in the condition that it is in , and i would like to compliment all the leadership in the house and on the senate on both sides of the aisle that have worked so hard and so diligently throughout this weekend and given up their palm sunday weekend to serve a very important citizen of this country and someone whom we have an obligation to protect the constitutional rights of terri schiavo . 
she has a right to due process under the 14th amendment , and she has a right to equal protection . 
she has a right to her day in court . 
we look at the circumstances that took place in the florida courts and the continual appeals that we went back through and the relentless efforts to end her life by her guardian , her estranged husband , who may have a conflict of interest . 
and i look back into that to see what that might amount to because it is always important to understand the potential for the motives . 
and as i added up these dollars , the settlement for medical malpractice , $ 250 , 000 preliminarily and the court then ruled another $ 1.4 million to terri schiavo and $ 600 , 000 awarded to michael schiavo , that is $ 2 , 225 , 000 awarded in her behalf . 
of that one can assume approximately $ 800 , 000 went to attorneys fees and costs . 
now , additionally the court ordered $ 750 , 000 to go into the terri schiavo trust account . 
now , that was pledged to go for her rehabilitation , her care , her medical treatment , and her tests . 
and that was a pledge made by her guardian , michael schiavo . 
but of that $ 750 , 000 , these are the most conservative numbers that i can produce , there was $ 486 , 941 that went to attorneys ' fees to promote her death , not her care ; another $ 10 , 929 to michael schiavo for expenses ; another $ 55 , 000 to the bank for , assumedly , administrative fees . 
when you do the math on this and shake this down , it breaks down to this : approximately $ 2 million out of that $ 2.25 million against her interests into the pockets of attorneys and into the pockets of michael schiavo and into the pockets of the bank for administrative fees . 
less than $ 200 , 000 was committed to her care over all of these years , 13 or 14 years . 
and i think this illustrates a potential for a conflict of interest . 
she is not on life support , mr. speaker . 
she needs only a feeding tube and the court ordered to remove the tube . 
and if it were determined that her food and fluid were to be stopped , all they had to do was stop adding it . 
it is a horrible way to die . 
she has been denied therapy , and she has been denied treatment . 
it has been stated that she does not show any electronic brain waves . 
she only had a cat scan back in the early 90s . 
she has never had an mri . 
she has never had a pet scan , and she has been denied treatment even for infection . 
and when they sent her to the hospice 5 years ago , a place where a person is sent to die , 5 years she has been there , mr. speaker , and 5 years she has been denied sunshine , denied even the ability to be rolled out into the sunshine in her wheelchair . 
