mr. speaker , we are considering today what is the life of terri schiavo , and it is not just about who we are as americans . 
it is about a lifestyle . 
it gives us the opportunity to affirm constitutional protections apply to all americans , particularly the most vulnerable among us . 
as a disabled person , terri schiavo deserves the same right as any american , and for terri time is quickly running out . 
i believe it is extremely important that congress step in to protect the life of terri before it is too late . 
in looking at the evidence in this case , i believe the courts have acted irresponsibly . 
terri schiavo does not need the assistance of any machine to keep her alive . 
she is responsive to the sound , touch , and sight of those caring for her . 
she has parents and siblings who desperately want to take care of her . 
yet the courts have even denied the ability of the relatives to offer food and water to her lips . 
in fact , noble prize nominee dr . 
william hammesfahr recently issued a statement saying he has examined terri and he believes her injury is the type of stroke that he treats every day with success . 
in fact , he said there are many approaches that would help terri . 
i know because i have had the opportunity to personally examine her and her medical record and her x-rays . 
it is time to help terri instead of just warehousing her . 
she would have benefited from treatment years ago , but it is not too late now . 
terri 's parents along with her brother and sister have begged her husband , michael , to let them take care of terri . 
he has not only refused this request , he has denied terri the rehabilitative care they might have offered her to help with her condition . 
now he has had her feeding tube removed and sentenced her to a most excruciating death , citing terri 's own wishes as the rationale . 
yet terri did not express this to her parents or siblings or reduce her wishes on paper , and michael did not remember the supposed request until years after terri 's initial injuries when a cash settlement was awarded to her , a settlement he would stand to inherit . 
if we as a congress allow this to happen without guaranteeing her 14th amendment rights to due process , terri 's blood is on our hands . 
if we do not act now , our inaction is completely irreversible . 
i urge my colleagues to support this bill . 
