mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for yielding me time . 
mr. speaker , i come to the floor to just speak about the issue of being here in the first place . 
when i was home for a couple of days , several friends asked questions about this case . 
my mother even called to inquire . 
like the gentlewoman from colorado , i am just an earnest layman , not a lawyer or a physician , even though i have been very impressed from both sides with the input from the distinguished lawyers and physicians that are in these chambers , and i think we should come often now as technology develops exponentially and just ask questions of ourselves about medical ethics and where we really are . 
i reject the notion that this is about politics . 
i do know something about politics , and i would say this is not good politics for either side . 
this is about life and death . 
i do believe that this is somewhat about ideology , though . 
the gentleman from massachusetts said so , and i believe there is a culture of life that many conservatives are willing to stand for . 
i frankly think that many liberals for a long time used every tool at their disposal to push their perspective , and i am glad conservatives are finally figuring out that that needs to be done from time to time . 
i think this is a thoughtful process ; i think it is a necessary process . 
i think the federal representatives , when we face these issues , should not hide or shirk the responsibility . 
we should come here . 
now , i am concerned about the separation of powers and the tenth amendment , and i have a record for a decade of standing on almost a libertarian platform on some of these issues . 
but i do not think we are going too far here . 
this is a review . 
it is simply a review . 
it is a reasonable step . 
to the gentleman from massachusetts , you have a living will . 
to the whole country , if you do not want your family in this dilemma , and you should not , get a living will , so that it is clear , so it is not questioned , so that you will not have a case come to the floor of the house with you . 
the lesson here is everyone in this country should have a living will , so it is cut and dried , so we know , and the legislative bodies in florida or montana or washington , d.c . 
will not have to be involved . 
