mr. speaker , congress typically writes laws with a broad application , but sometimes a special situation , such as this one , requires unusual legislative action . 
life is sacred . 
many across america have voiced support in an effort to keep terri schiavo alive . 
nothing can diminish the importance of life . 
terri schiavo suffered a heart attack 15 years ago and experienced brain damage . 
while in the hospital , tubes were inserted in her digestive system to provide nutrition and hydration . 
three years later , terri was still talking when speech therapy was discontinued . 
terri schiavo is currently not terminally ill or in the process of dying . 
she is brain damaged , but she is otherwise healthy . 
terri schiavo is not on artificial life support . 
no extraordinary measures are being taken to keep her alive . 
ms. schiavo is a living person . 
she is awake and aware of her surroundings . 
many are galvanized by her cause because like me , they recognize that the right to life is one of our core fundamental human values . 
the 14th amendment states , `` no state shall deprive any person of life , liberty or property without due process of law. '' in this special circumstance , we were left with a last legal recourse to help save her life by providing her with the opportunity to have her case heard before a federal court . 
there is clear precedent for federal review of life and death cases . 
i strongly value the importance of states ' rights . 
this case does not weaken my resolve to fight for states ' rights . 
the state and federal government should not take life , but by giving the federal court an opportunity to hear the case , this allows one more opportunity for terri schiavo to live . 
judge greer of the pinellas-pasco circuit court stated , `` i see no cogent reason why the committee should be able to intervene into a case involving the decision of whether or not to remain on life support. '' he added , `` i do n't think that legislative agencies or bodies have business in court proceedings. '' i respectfully disagree . 
the constitution not only outlines a separation of powers but also a system of checks and balances . 
it is congress 's duty to hold the judicial branch accountable or to act itself within its powers when it believes it is necessary . 
the driving force behind many people 's efforts on behalf of ms. schiavo was plainly to save her life . 
yet there have emerged a number of difficult and complicated issues . 
i applaud the efforts of those who fight for ms. schiavo to live . 
these issues resonate with many as some of us contemplate how we would like to die . 
i , however , focus on how congress can protect ms. schiavo 's life because that is of paramount importance . 
