mr. speaker , i rise this evening in support of s. 686 . 
this legislation would allow either of terri 's parents to bring suit in federal court for the violation of any right under the constitution or laws of the united states relating to `` the withholding or withdrawal of food , fluids , or medical treatment necessary to sustain ms. schiavo 's life . 
what we are doing is providing terri schiavo the same legal protections that we afford a convicted criminal who has been sentenced to death . 
a florida judge has issued an order that will have the effect of ending ms. schiavo 's life , so the least we can do is allow a federal court to review the matter . 
if we ensure murderers and rapists the benefit of a federal review , we should do it for this helpless woman . 
this is a terribly difficult issue for all those involved -- not just ms. schiavo 's parents and siblings , but also her husband . 
i realize he would prefer congress stay out of the matter entirely . 
however , the 14th amendment states that `` no state shall deprive any person of life . 
. 
. 
without due process of law. '' in this case i believe it is entirely appropriate that we err on the side of caution -- all we 're doing is seeking a federal review of what has happened in the state courts to ensure that all constitutional rights , all of the basic protections that we afford a criminal , have been afforded to terri schiavo as well . 
as medical technology continues to improve , we are left with many difficult questions -- '' right to die issues , '' therapeutic cloning and stem cell research issues . 
these are questions i sometimes doubt we as men and women are truly capable of answering . 
in these cases the only thing we can do is follow the law , and the law provides for the opportunity for federal review in cases where a person will be put to death . 
thus , i believe terri schiavo too deserves this opportunity . 
this entire case hinges on what terri schiavo herself would have wanted . 
i am aware of the cases in florida state courts and the findings they have reached , both in terms of what they believe ms. schiavo would have chosen and the likelihood that new treatments could improve her condition . 
but in this instance i believe we should be as thorough as possible , which is why i support this legislation . 
