mr. speaker , i rise in support of this bill tonight with a heavy heart , as is everybody in this chamber . 
i would , though , like to address an important issue that we have not talked much about , and that is the conflict of interest that i believe her husband has with respect to his decisions that are supposedly in her best interest . 
i have spent a professional career as a cpa working under a code of conduct that requires me to function without conflicts of interest . 
i have to disqualify myself as an auditor if i have got a conflict of interest that is in appearance or in fact . 
this body has heard much about the importance of conflicts of interest , whether in the sarbanes-oxley bill that talks about the relationship of auditors and their clients , or campaign finance laws where it talks about the impact that money has on these conflicts of interest . 
terri 's husband has , in my mind , a significant and apparent conflict of interest in this matter . 
her husband is her guardian , and he is duty bound , in my mind , to make decisions that are in terri 's best interest . 
even the most casual observer would conclude that he is conflicted . 
he lives with another woman . 
he has fathered two children with this other woman . 
this is a conflict of interest between what is in his personal best interest and his wife and children 's best interests and those of terri 's . 
we have heard much about terri 's condition tonight , but what we have not heard , though , is much evidence of her current condition , evidence such as tests and mris and brain scans and swallowing tests that we could objectively evaluate her condition through these tests . 
her husband has categorically prevented this from happening throughout the last 7 years . 
i do not believe the issue of terri 's husband 's conflict of interest and its impact on her condition have been given a proper review . 
i have heard her brother tell us this evening about the lack of care that has been insisted upon by her husband throughout the last 7 years , simple tests , trips outside into the sunshine . 
i support this bill that would allow a review of terri 's case , including the role of her husband 's decision and his conflicts of interest . 
