mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this rule . 
there is much that should be law in this bill ; but as written , it should not pass . 
if this bill becomes law , children will have to compete for the first time with credit card companies in state court for the limited assets of debtors emerging from the bankruptcy process . 
i believe that there are many good parts of this bill ; but as a mother i came to congress to protect the rights of children , not to make their interests second to those of credit card companies . 
congress has always insisted that debtors should take care of their children before their credit cards , and we should not undermine this important family value . 
i am a strong supporter of the netting provisions of the bill . 
these provisions provide for the orderly unwinding of complex financial transactions when one participant becomes insolvent . 
alan greenspan has said these provisions reduce uncertainty for market participants and reduce risk by making it less likely that the default of one financial institution would have a domino effect on others . 
i support this ; and as a new yorker , i am really concerned that these provisions go into effect to protect the financial sector in the event of another terrorist attack . 
and i agree we need to build savings . 
but these positive aspects of the bill are outweighed by an unacceptable feature that the majority has refused to address , the fact that the bill pits child support claimants against credit card companies in state court for the assets that the debtor has when she or he goes into bankruptcy . 
in other words , kids will lose . 
i offered an amendment to address this , but the committee on rules did not make it in order . 
they did not make other important amendments that would protect victims of medical catastrophes , of identity theft and many others . 
this is very , very important . 
the sponsors say that they take care of this , but none of their steps address the new threat created by the bill to protect children from having to fight credit card companies in state court . 
we have never done this before . 
we should not leave this as a legacy of this congress . 
we can get this right . 
we should have put children first . 
we must vote against this rule and the bill . 
