mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this unfair , undemocratic closed rule and to the underlying bankruptcy bill . 
this lopsided bill will make it harder for families and seniors with debt problems arising from high medical expenses , job loss , divorce , or other financial hardships to address their problems while doing nothing to rein in the credit card companies whose practices have led to much of the rise in bankruptcies . 
s. 256 presumes that bankruptcy filers are simply bankruptcy abusers looking to game the system and avoid paying their bills , ignoring the clear evidence that the overwhelming majority of people in bankruptcy are in financial distress because of job loss , medical expense , divorce , or a combination of these causes . 
mr. speaker , an important and controversial bill like the bankruptcy bill deserves a real debate . 
members deserve the opportunity to consider a wide range of amendments . 
for the republican leadership and the republican members of the committee on rules to propose that we consider a bill that is tilted toward the credit card companies and as complex as this bill is without giving members any opportunity to amend it on the floor with only 30 minutes per side for general debate is a travesty and a gross abuse of power . 
when this bill was in the committee on the judiciary , we had a pseudo-markup that lasted all day and was a complete embarrassment and a waste of time for all of the members , for the republicans would not even consider one amendment , no matter how meritorious or beneficial to the american people , even if the amendment addressed issues not previously considered because of the republican leadership 's insistence on reporting out a clean bill in order to avoid a conference committee . 
as a result , important , thoughtful amendments on such subjects as protection on domestic violence victims from eviction , disabled veterans , alimony and child support , exemptions for medical emergencies and job loss , underage credit card lending , and a homestead exemption for seniors , predatory lending and payday loans all were rejected by the committee on the judiciary . 
shame on you republicans . 
