madam chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
madam chairman , i offer a manager 's amendment which sets forth clearly all of the changes we are proposing to make in our comprehensive energy bill . 
we have listed all of the changes , rather than offer a substitute , so all members know which provisions we are changing . 
our summary clearly explains these changes . 
madam chairman , this amendment makes some technical changes , adds a few provisions which were part of the h.r. 6 conference report from last congress , and clarifies some of the provisions contained in this year 's bill . 
none of these provisions should be controversial . 
we make technical changes in the ceiling fan efficiency standards . 
we clarify references to the firearm laws in the nuclear security provision , which had referred to a law no longer in existence . 
we clarified the tax status of the consortium under the ultradeep program . 
and we made clear the puhca provisions would not impair ferc 's or state commissions ' ability to enforce provisions and that companies still must comply with existing orders during the period repeal becomes effective . 
we clarify dates in the nas mtbe study , rulemaking and appropriation authorization dates for the lust program , and clarified the bump-up dates . 
we allowed our clean air coal projects to be eligible to power plants of 600 mw or less . 
we made technical changes to the boutique fuels studies and our reference to the soybean oil within the edible oil act . 
we have also included the on road and off-road diesel rules in the fuel harmonization study . 
we also clarified that ferc would have a role to play with the regional boards we established to set guidelines for efficient , economic dispatch of electric power . 
madam chairman , we again try to cap the energy savings performance contracts at $ 500 million . 
we disagree these provisions should score . 
like many , we have voiced our opposition to this score , but we are concerned about the cost of the bill , so we are trying again to cap its cost . 
we also tried to avoid a $ 64 million score on our employee benefits amendment we adopted in committee . 
some of our other changes include clarifying that the 3-year time period in which the federal government must establish energy efficiency standards on certain products be prospective only . 
like we did in the bill of the last congress , we moved the photovoltaic program from doe to gsa . 
we added back into the bill some of the provisions contained in our h.r. 6 conference report of the last congress . 
several were in the research and development title and include the western michigan demonstration project , the western hemisphere energy cooperation project , the arctic engineering research center , and the barrow geophysical research facility . 
madam chairman , most importantly , we reinserted the natural gas market reform provision from the last congress to ensure enron trading practices of the past are not repeated . 
we had to drop this provision because the parliamentarians thought it could be subject to a point of order in our committee , so we are putting it back in now . 
we have also added the aircraft idling study , the engine idling program , and the hydrogen fuel bus program . 
if any member has any concerns about these provisions , i look forward to working with you through conference . 
we have added some noncontroversial amendments through the affordable housing energy efficiency provisions . 
the other amendments are purely technical in nature , such as removing duplicative provisions passed by other committees . 
finally , madam chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 , chairman of the committee on resources ; the gentleman from california ( mr. thomas ) xz4004010 , chairman of the committee on ways and means ; the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 , chairman of the committee on science ; the gentleman from virginia ( mr. tom davis ) , chairman of the committee on government reform ; the gentleman from alaska ( mr. young ) xz4004401 , chairman of the committee on transportation and infrastructure , and their staffs , for helping us put together this manager 's amendment ; and i ask for its adoption . 
madam chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
