mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , h.r. 6 recognizes the key role of renewable energy and energy conservation as part of a balanced , comprehensive energy policy . 
the national priority project designation act , which is this amendment , would complement the provisions already included in h.r. 6 by creating an additional incentive for renewable energy deployment and energy conservation at virtually no cost to the federal government . 
the national priority project designation would not only recognize the winning projects , it would also educate the public and the business community about the potential of renewable energy to contribute to north american energy independence . 
the designation would draw attention to large renewable energy projects , such as large wind farms that provide hundreds of megawatts of electricity generation capacity . 
the designation would also encourage large building developments to expand on planned renewable energy and energy efficient features to add scale and deploy emerging technologies . 
this is a free-market , extremely low-cost way to encourage investment and innovation in renewable energy and energy conservation . 
in summary , the amendment , which is modeled after the malcolm baldrige quality award act , would recognize and highlight major green building and renewable energy projects . 
the legislation would direct the secretary of energy to establish guidelines for those interested in the designation to submit applications for an annual award process . 
the amendment establishes an open competitive process with minimum qualifying criteria . 
the secretary of energy would certify those projects that meet minimum criteria . 
the president would then , in consultation with the secretary of energy , select projects that advance the field of renewable energy technology and contribute to north american energy independence to receive the national priority project designation . 
winning projects would receive a medal commemorating the designation . 
winning projects could also use the national priority project designation in their advertising . 
the amendment would establish two categories of projects , pure renewable energy generation of 30 megawatts or more ; and integration of at least 30 megawatts of renewable energy generation with large , energy-efficient buildings . 
mr. chairman , i support enactment of this important energy legislation , and i urge my colleagues to include this amendment therein . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
