mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
today i am introducing an amendment to the energy policy act to create a new conservation and research program , conserve by bike . 
this is something that we discussed the last time we had an energy program before us . 
this was approved by a voice vote . 
this legislation represents a small but important step forward towards determining our energy future . 
there is much discussion on the floor about things that are mandatory . 
there are lots of things that make people cranky . 
this is one thing that will be able to help us move forward to actually take advantage of proven technology , and something that is a very positive development in each and every community across the country . 
bicycling , as virtually every member of this assembly knows , is one of the cleanest , healthiest , most efficient and environmentally friendly modes of transportation that exists . 
it is the most efficient form of urban transportation in history . 
as an alternative to automobile travel , bicycling can be an important element of a comprehensive energy conservation strategy . 
however , the relationship has not been adequately studied . 
the conserve by bike amendment recognizes that it is time to better understand the positive effects that bicycling can have on the conservation of our energy resources . 
the amendment seeks to ensure that the federal government educates the public and provides appropriate research into the benefits of bicycling as it relates to energy conservation . 
we are well aware of the health impacts . 
we are well aware of the opportunities that bicycling affords to young people , for example , to being able to have access to school . 
this assembly , just last month , has approved in our transportation legislation , almost $ 1 billion in safe routes to schools . 
with istea and tea-21 we have increasingly supported bike facilities through state , federal and local funding . 
this amendment will leverage these investments to help people take advantage of energy conservation choices they have in getting around their community . 
first , the amendment would establish a conserve by bicycling pilot program in the department of transportation , oversee up to 10 geographically dispersed pilot projects across the country designed to conserve energy resources , providing education and marketing tools to convert car trips to bike trips . 
in addition , the projects would encourage partnerships between stakeholders from transportation , law enforcement , education , public health , environment and energy fields . 
the project results in energy savings must be documented , and the secretary of transportation is instructed to report to congress the results of the pilot program within 2 years of implementation . 
according to the bureau of transportation statistics , bicycles are second only to cars as a preferred mode of transportation , demonstrating their potential for commuter use . 
in recent years there have been significant upgrades to bicycling environments in the communities across the country . 
at a time when these communities are seeking to reduce traffic congestion , improve air quality , increase the safety of their neighborhoods , decrease petroleum dependence , bicycles offer a relatively simple , energy-saving alternative to driving . 
at a time when we talk seriously about transportation alternatives as an important component to comprehensive energy conservation strategy , this gives us the elements to make sure that we can document the impact . 
the conserve by bike program is a critical step in the right direction . 
i strongly urge its adoption . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
