mr. chairman , i said mild opposition because it is exactly what it is . 
i chair the committee of jurisdiction that would have this amendment , and we have been working with the congresswoman from connecticut to try to perfect her amendment . 
she has been very gracious to come up to me on the floor , and then her staff and committee staff have been working , and we really thought that earlier in the week or late last week we had an amendment that everybody could agree to . 
for various reasons , that was not agreed to , so we have the situation today . 
at the close of this debate , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 , a member of the committee of jurisdiction , is going to offer a perfecting amendment to the johnson amendment . 
i am going to support that at the appropriate time . 
we support the goal of the johnson amendment . 
she is trying to get consumers fair and accurate information when they go into a showroom or are thinking about purchasing a new vehicle . 
she states , and i agree , that the consumer has a right to know what the fuel economy is of that particular vehicle ; and under current law , the way the tests are conducted , there is some discrepancy , as she has pointed out in her statement in support of her amendment . 
having said that , there are those that have reviewed her amendment and think that it could be a backdoor approach to cafe standard increases . 
we just had the debate on the boehlert-markey amendment . 
i voted in the negative on that , and i think when that rollcall is called , the majority of the house is going to be in the negative . 
so i know that is not the intent of the gentlewoman 's amendment , but there are some that think it could be . 
we are going to oppose this amendment and support the gentleman from michigan 's ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 amendment in the nature of a substitute or amendment to the johnson amendment . 
i think at the end of the day , the house is going to work its will , and the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 is going to be happy and the gentleman from michigan ( mr. rogers ) xz4003421 is going to be happy and the consumers of america are going to be happy when they go into showrooms a year or two from now and see these new window labels that show what the fuel economy is . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
