mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i rise to offer a perfecting amendment to a good grant proposal offered in section 1512 . 
under h.r. 6 , the secretary of energy may provide grants to merchant producers of cellulosic biomass ethanol and waste-derived ethanol . 
my amendment would simply allow producers of other renewable fuels approved by the department of energy to also apply for these grants . 
this amendment simply expands the types of renewable fuels eligible for funding under the grant program in h.r. 6 . 
there is no change in cost to the grant program or h.r. 6 under my amendment . 
currently , there is no available technology that can convert much of the urban waste into ethanol ; yet there is at least one such technology that can convert urban waste into components for another doe-recognized alternative fuel called p-series fuels . 
p-series is a family of renewable nonpetroleum liquid fuels that can substitute for gasoline . 
p-series fuels were officially designated as an alternative fuel by the u.s. department of energy in 1999 . 
forty-five percent of p-series fuels are made from ethanol ; the rest is made up of mthf , natural gas liquids and butane . 
both the ethanol and mthr are derived from renewable domestic feedstocks , such as corn , wastepaper , cellulosic biomass , agricultural waste , and wood waste from construction . 
since p-series fuels are not derived from petroleum , the doe concluded that p-series fuels would efficiently and effectively help replace petroleum imports . 
doe also found p-series to have environmental benefits because of the reduction in hydrocarbon and co emissions , toxics , and greenhouse gases . 
p-series fuel addresses three problems : the need for nonpetroleum energy sources , solid waste management , and affordability . 
a pilot plan for this technology is operating in south glens falls , new york . 
it was constructed with funds invested by the u.s. department of energy . 
associated technology was developed at the u.s. department of energy 's pacific northwest national laboratory . 
this conversion process is well regarded and is deserving of the same level of assistance that are intended for ethanol conversion technologies . 
it won the president 's green chemistry challenge , a competition sponsored by the u.s. epa 's office of pollution prevention and toxics . 
the u.s. government spent considerable time and effort to develop this technology . 
expanding the renewable fuels eligible under the grant program will be a win for all . 
mr. chairman , i know of no opposition to this amendment . 
i urge my colleagues to approve this simple amendment to h.r. 6 . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
