mr. chairman , i thank my distinguished chairman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong support of the rogers amendment to the johnson underlying amendment . 
currently , there is one test conducted on vehicles to determine the fuel economy rating . 
the johnson amendment would require epa to change that fuel economy testing for label purposes . 
what this will result in is having automakers being forced to do two or three or four , or maybe even more , separate tests . 
that costs money , more money , and is unnecessary and more burdensome . 
additionally , as written , the johnson amendment could also affect how cafe is calculated . 
the johnson amendment could lower the fleet fuel economy averages of manufacturers that make compliance with the cafe standards much more difficult . 
instead of running the substantial risk under the johnson amendment , the rogers/ kilpatrick bipartisan perfecting amendment makes a technical change to clarify that automakers do not have to run multiple duplicative tests to update fuel economy labeling and ensures that the cafe program is not manipulated . 
let us take this into a normal example . 
this morning , many of us , we live in different states , but we come and commute here to washington . 
i live in virginia ; it is 7 miles from the capitol here to my house . 
it took me more than 30 minutes to get in today . 
if i had to drive 7 miles in my town of st . 
joseph , michigan , it would take me about 12 minutes . 
we know that when we buy a car . 
i had a staff member that bought a great new ford hybrid vehicle the other day . 
he gets accelerated cafe , or he gets much better gas mileage with that car when he is in the big city driving . 
when he goes to chicago , to see the cubs or the white sox , or whoever , he gets a lot better mileage because he is stopping and starting all the time . 
in kalamazoo , which is a city of 100 , 000 , where he lives , he does not get quite the same mileage because it is a different scenario . 
you can not have 20 or 30 , who knows how many tests . 
maybe it is like boutique fuels . 
you have all these different areas , people with different driving habits , and you can not expect that the epa is going to put a laundry list of these different tests on the window . 
we know that when we buy our vehicles . 
we know about what it is going to be based on , our history of purchasing cars . 
and , frankly , a duplicative test with these multiple numbers will only be more confusing rather than less confusing to the consumer . 
that is why i strongly urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle , as we have with this bipartisan amendment , to support the rogers amendment to the johnson amendment so we can make more sense for every consumer as they purchase a new american car . 
