it looked to me like it was . 
we had a good debate on it there and it was rejected , and i honestly hope that the house does the same . 
mr. chairman , i want to read a part of the amendment . 
it says under section 151 , `` presidential actions . 
for purposes of reducing waste of oil and decreasing demand for foreign oil , not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this act , appropriate federal departments and agencies identified by the president shall propose voluntary , regulatory , and other actions , '' other actions , `` sufficient to reduce the demand for oil in the united states by at least 1 million barrels per day from projected demand for oil in 2013. '' now , let us go through that . 
the gentleman is stating that we are wasting oil . 
i guess when i hop in my pickup truck to go to the store to get some milk , then i am wasting gasoline . 
but my wife does not think i am wasting it , my children or stepchildren do not think i am wasting it when they get to drink the milk that i go get , but i guess maybe we are . 
so i do not know how we would identify this waste , but i assume there would be some federal commission that could identify the waste of oil . 
of course , it talks about decreasing the demand for foreign oil . 
well , oil is oil . 
we do get about 14 million barrels a day from overseas , and god bless us that we do . 
our economy would come to a halt if we did not . 
so i am not sure how we would work on that . 
it talks about being voluntary , regulatory , but then it says `` other actions. '' `` other '' could be mandatory . 
`` other '' could be whatever the president of the united states says it is . 
but the gentleman from california goes on to say , in subsection b , `` if the president determines that the departments and agencies lack the authority or funding to implement the actions proposed , '' in the section i just read , `` then the president should come to the congress and request the necessary authority. '' now , here we have an economy that in the last year in the united states , demand for energy has gone up , not down . 
the price of gasoline in nominal dollars has doubled in the last year . 
demand has gone up 2 percent . 
we have doubled the price and demand has gone up . 
but yet , somehow , the gentleman from california ( mr. waxman ) xz4004250 thinks if we accept this amendment , that we are going to be able to wave some magic wand at the presidential level , and maybe at the congressional level , and reduce demand for oil by 1 million barrels . 
we are only producing around 7 or 8 million barrels a day domestically , but somehow , just by having a group hug in the federal agencies , we are going to find a way to reduce demand by 1 million barrels . 
i do not think it is going to work that way . 
we can emote all we want , but we have a growing economy , a growing population , and we are probably going to continue to need more oil , not less . 
so the way to do it is to find ways to produce more and to find real-world ways to consume less and get more bang for the buck . 
this amendment does not get us there , with all due respect . 
i hope we would oppose it . 
i strongly support the gentleman 's right to offer it , but i just as strongly support my right to oppose it , and i hope at the appropriate time the house will vote `` no '' on the waxman amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
