mr. chairman , i yield myself 3 minutes . 
i am pleased to offer the bishop-markey-mcdermott en bloc amendment this evening along with my colleagues . 
we have an opportunity within our reach to make a real advancement in energy policy , but we are about to do the unimaginable : pass an energy bill that will do nothing to lower gas prices . 
let me say that again because i think it is important to our constituents who are paying $ 2.25 or more for a gallon of gas , this energy bill will not lower gas prices . 
in fact , according to the department of energy , this bill may actually increase future gas prices . 
fortunately , our amendment will help consumers see immediate relief at the gas pump . 
the bishop-markey-mcdermott amendment calls on the president to immediately suspend deliveries to the strategy petroleum reserve until oil prices fall below $ 40 per barrel . 
when we have done this in the past , the price of oil has dropped anywhere from $ 6 to $ 11 per barrel . 
the united states should be the global leader in the development of new and innovative technologies . 
this amendment will encourage the growth of an energy-efficiency marketplace that fosters and incubates new start-ups . 
this will not only lead to exciting new advances , it will help create good-paying jobs for thousands of americans . 
our amendment will create a $ 5 billion emerging-technology trust fund , funding the technologies of the future rather than the further counterproductive subsidies to the oil and gas industries provided for in the underlying bill . 
the bishop-markey-mcdermott amendment would also offer grants to states that meet new standards for efficiency in new building development . 
under our amendment , the renewable energy production tax credit will be extended for 5 years . 
we will provide tax credits for new homes that reduce energy use , as well as tax credits for new and existing commercial buildings to reduce energy use ; and we would also offer an investment tax credit for the development of higher efficiency heating and cooling systems . 
in short , we offer tax cuts and credits that america will embrace and at the same time create a cleaner and healthier environment for our children . 
we will allow consumers to make more informed decisions about energy-efficient appliances for their homes or businesses by adding greater meaning to the energy star label by mandating that only the top 25 percent of products will carry that label . 
currently , according to the alliance to save energy , approximately two-thirds of products are eligible to wear the energy star label , rendering the distinction almost meaningless . 
mr. chairman , let us give americans in the northeast and on the west coast something to cheer about . 
america needs electricity reliability and protection from fraud and blackouts . 
h.r. 6 would repeal the public utility holding company act . 
our act would strike that provision . 
puhca is the only line of defense for millions of taxpayers protecting them from skyrocketing energy costs and greedy corporations . 
we should not allow utility holding companies to use the profits obtained from their regulated business activities squeezed from their captive rate-payers and pour it down the sinkholes of unregulated businesses . 
puhca should not be repealed ; it should be applied appropriately and enforced . 
mr. chairman , h.r. 6 is anti-taxpayer , anti-consumer , and anti-environment . 
and i will say it again , it does nothing to lower gas prices . 
we can do better . 
the bishop-markey-mcdermott en bloc amendment offers real incentives for energy efficiency and real relief at the pump . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
