mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of this amendment and i congratulate the gentleman from florida , mr. hastings , for bringing it to the floor of the house . 
the amendment would expand the federal definition of environmental justice , directs each federal agency to establish an office of environmental justice , reestablishes the interagency federal working group on environmental justice , and requires that executive order 12898 remain in force until changed by law . 
by adopting the amendment we can take a significant step to ensuring that current and future federal policies will be informed by the need to protect minority and low-income communities from poor environmental and energy decisions and policies . 
the amendment is similar to a bill i introduced earlier this year with our colleague from california , representative hilda solis . 
it is also cosponsored by the gentleman from new jersey , mr. andrews as well as by mr. hastings of florida , the author of this amendment . 
like this amendment , that legislation was prompted by our continued concern about the way federal actions have had disproportionately adverse effects on the health , environment and quality of life of americans in minority and lower-income communities . 
too often these communities -- because of their low income or lack of political visibility -- are exposed to greater risks from toxins and dangerous substances because it has been possible to locate waste dumps , industrial facilities , and chemical storage warehouses in these communities with less care than would be taken in other locations . 
the sad fact is that in some eyes these communities have appeared as expendable -- without full appreciation that human beings , who deserve to be treated with respect and dignity , are living , working , and raising families there . 
this needs to give way to policies focused on providing clean , healthy and quality environments within and around these communities . 
when that happens , we provide hope for the future and enhance the opportunities that these citizens have to improve their condition . 
this amendment , like our bill , would help do just that . 
the amendment , like our bill , essentially codifies an executive order that was issued by president clinton in 1994 . 
that order required all federal agencies to incorporate environmental justice considerations in their missions , develop strategies to address disproportionate impacts to minority and low-income people from their activities , and coordinate the development of data and research on these topics . 
although federal agencies have been working to implement this order and have developed strategies , there is clearly much more to do . 
we simply can not solve these issues overnight or even over a couple of years . 
we need to `` institutionalize '' the consideration of these issues in a more long-term fashion -- which this bill would do . 
in addition , just as the current policy was established by an administrative order , it could be swept away with a stroke of an administrative pen . 
to avoid that , we need to make it more permanent -- which is also what this amendment , like our bill , would do . 
it would do this by statutorily requiring all federal agencies to -- make addressing environmental justice concerns part of their missions ; develop environmental justice strategies ; evaluate the effects of proposed actions on the health and environment of minority , low-income , and native american communities ; avoid creating disproportionate adverse impacts on the health or environment of minority , low-income , or native american communities ; and collect data and carry out research on the effects of facilities on health and environment of minority , low-income , and native american communities . 
it would also statutorily establish two committees : the interagency environmental justice working group , set up by the executive order to develop strategies , provide guidance , coordinate research , convene public meetings , and conduct inquiries regarding environmental justice issues ; and a federal environmental justice advisory committee , appointed by the president , including members of community-based groups , business , academic , state agencies and environmental organizations . 
it will provide input and advice to the interagency working group . 
in a nutshell , what this amendment -- like our bill -- would do is require federal agencies that control the siting and disposing of hazardous materials , store toxins or release pollutants at federal facilities , or issue permits for these kinds of activities to make sure they give fair treatment to low-income and minority populations -- including native americans . 
the bill tells federal agencies , `` in the past these communities have endured a disproportionate impact to their health and environment . 
now we must find ways to make sure that wo n't be the case in the future. '' i urge adoption of the amendment . 
