mr. chairman , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 6 . 
the people of our nation need an energy policy . 
we need to pass an energy policy that actually brings down record high gas prices , protects our environment , and truly reduces our dependence on foreign oil by encouraging energy efficiency and the use of renewable sources of energy . 
instead , at a time of record gas prices , this special-interest , anti-consumer energy bill would actually increase gas prices . 
the national average price for gasoline remains at a record level of $ 2.24 per gallon . 
and yet , according to the bush administration 's own energy department , the republican bill will actually increase gas prices by 3 cents and will have almost no effect on production , consumption , or prices , as if raising gas prices were not bad enough , h.r. 6 also harms our environment . 
it rolls back important safeguards in the clean water act and the safe drinking water act , which are critical in keeping our waterways clean and safe . 
protecting the producers of mtbe from paying for polluting our drinking water , h.r. 6 actually passes the cost of cleaning up the industry 's mess to taxpayers . 
finally , it opens the arctic national wildlife refuge , one of our nation 's greatest natural treasures , to drilling by the oil and gas industries . 
at this time in history , it is crucial that we work to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by prioritizing energy efficiency and renewable energy . 
of all the tax incentives in h.r. 6 , only 7 percent are designated to encourage renewable energy and conservation , while billions of dollars in tax breaks are funneled to the oil and gas industries . 
on top of these tax breaks , provisions in this bill would provide as much as $ 2 billion over ten years to companies who drill in the deep waters off the gulf of mexico . 
instead of increasing corporate giveaways at a time when oil and gas companies are raking in record profits , we must redouble our efforts to support renewable energy and conservation . 
mr. chairman , because h.r. 6 would increase gas prices , harm our environment , and do so little to encourage renewable energy sources , i oppose this legislation and urge my colleagues to do the same . 
