mr. speaker , this rule to begin with is further evidence of the contempt which the majority of this house has for something called democracy . 
we have heard in a few brief minutes from both a republican and a democrat their unhappiness that important issues will not be brought forward . 
why ? 
well , we work probably all day today ; we may work a half day tomorrow . 
so in this week when we could have worked many days and debated many amendments at length , we will have some not discussed at all and others discussed for a handful of minutes because this majority can not be bothered with anything as cumbersome to them as open debate and having members have to record themselves . 
one of the issues which is given inadequate time , it is given some time but inadequate time , i think 10 minutes , is an outrageous effort by the majority to further diminish the ability of elected state governments to defend their own citizens . 
state governments are sometimes popular around here and sometimes not . 
when state governments , democratically elected governors and legislatures , appear to be obstacles to letting major players in the energy industry get whatever they want , then they are to be diminished , they are to be dismissed , they are to be thrown out of the process . 
with regard to liquefied natural gas terminals , a very important issue , an issue which has become more important because of their relevance to the terrorism threat which security officials tell us is the case , this bill takes a limited state role in the siting of these and makes it a nonexistent state role . 
the ability of governors and legislatures -- i have a republican governor in my state who does not like a proposal to site an energy plant in a wholly inappropriate place , way up river in the city of four rivers , which the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. mcgovern ) xz4002630 and i share . 
this governor 's objections will be muffled . 
so i guess i should congratulate you on the bipartisanship of your contempt for democracy . 
it is not just our colleague from tennessee who could not get amendments through ; my republican governor can not get his voice heard . 
this rule and this bill ought to be defeated . 
