mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to this rule and the underlying bill because , despite republican claims , this energy bill really does not help american families with the cost of power or the skyrocketing gas prices . 
this bill does , however , help the administration 's special interest friends . 
it is riddled with billions of dollars of taxpayer giveaways to the nuclear , oil and gas industries . 
i am appalled that we are doing nothing to reduce gas prices at a time when oil companies are reaping obscene profits . 
current prices of oil are lingering at $ 50 a barrel and are expected to continue to skyrocket . 
we should be focusing on reducing our dependence on foreign oil by diversifying our energy sources , not by encouraging more oil and gas production . 
this bill does little to promote renewable energy , the energy of our future . 
given the latest revelations about the wanton falsification of scientific studies of the proposed yucca mountain repository , congress should not funnel one more penny of taxpayer dollars into the yucca mountain project . 
additional problems continued to plague the site . 
the courts have ruled that the epa radiation standards will not protect the health and safety of the american people . 
instead of making the united states safer , the proposed yucca mountain project provides a terrorist target that could cause massive economic and civilian casualties . 
in the committee on rules , my colleague , the gentleman from nevada ( mr. porter ) xz4003240 and i offered a simple amendment that would have included yucca mountain in the nuclear site threat assessment study , already a part of the energy bill . 
despite the findings of the gao and the national academy of sciences that there are security vulnerabilities present at reactor sites during high-level radioactive waste , there has been no threat assessment conducted at the mother of all radioactive waste sites , yucca mountain . 
regardless of how any of us feels about yucca mountain , the federal government has a duty to assess the risks , not just to protect nevada and our neighbors in the west , but for the well-being of our nation . 
unfortunately , the committee on rules did not put that amendment in order . 
now is the time to create an energy plan that will wean our country off of foreign oil . 
it is not the time to line the pockets of the special interests . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose this very backward , very foolish , very good piece of legislation if you are in the energy business . 
