mr. chairman , i rise today to state my opposition to h.r. 6 , the energy policy act . 
we can not simply seek more fossil fuel supplies and increase use of conventional energy sources as a long-term solution to improving the united states ' energy security . 
instead of creating a truly comprehensive plan for addressing our energy needs , this legislation sets us on the wrong path , making us more reliant on oil than we already are . 
it will not help consumers save on energy costs and it will not help the u.s. become energy independent . 
this legislation sends us in the wrong direction by relying on the fuels of today to provide energy in the future . 
we can not sacrifice investment in new , cleaner , domestic sources in order to pay $ 8.1 billion to oil producers in tax cuts and subsidies . 
i am pleased to see that h.r. 6 does contain some encouraging provisions , such as increasing use of ethanol and biodiesel , but these provisions are far outweighed by the bill 's misguided support of oil . 
we need to create new , clean , renewable resources for addressing our current and future needs and develop technology and programs that encourage conservation . 
this legislation would allow the oil industry , currently experiencing some of its most profitable years , to further their reach through exploration in sensitive environments , such as the arctic national wildlife refuge , and the great lakes . 
allowing such activities is misguided at best . 
additionally , h.r. 6 takes mtbe producers off the hook for dirtying local drinking water supplies and passes the costs of the clean up to state and local government . 
additionally , this legislation will not stabilize the electricity market . 
one of the primary purposes of developing a comprehensive energy policy for the u.s. is to prevent another regional blackout and to prevent future enron-like scandals . 
the legislation that was brought to the house floor exposes consumers to potential electricity scams by repealing the public utility holding company act ( pucha ) . 
this measure was enacted to prevent companies like enron from holding monopolies and help consumers get justice when companies conspire to cheat . 
the federal energy regulatory commission is not designed to effectively protect consumers . 
in order to create a policy that looks to future needs and u.s. security , we can not rely on increased drilling and oil refineries . 
we must look to methods to reduce our need for energy and expand the domestic and renewable resources available to us . 
finding new , efficient , clean , renewable sources of energy is not just better than continuing down the path h.r. 6 sends us on , it is necessary for the security of the u.s . 