mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
completion of this energy bill is a step forward in our struggle for energy security and independence . 
a reliable and affordable energy supply is crucial to america 's economic vitality , security , and quality of life . 
while this energy bill is not perfect , we continue to make progress towards promoting energy conservation and efficiency ; increasing the use of all domestic energy resources , including coal and ethanol ; improving our energy infrastructure ; and promoting the development of advanced energy technologies . 
the combustion of fossil fuels is essential to our energy policy and must continue to be a part of a balanced energy plan for this country . 
coal is absolutely critical to our nation 's economic health and global competitiveness because there is no present alternative to coal to meet our energy needs . 
coal accounts for more than 50 percent of u.s. electricity production in the u.s. , and in my home state of illinois , the coal reserves contain more btu 's than the oil reserves of saudi arabia and kuwait . 
twenty-three of the state 's 82 generating facilities run on coal and employ over 2 , 883 employees . 
however , a majority of the coal facilities burn western coal . 
the coal provisions included in today 's energy bill could help these plants switch back to illinois coal , keep them operating in a more environmentally friendly way , and maintains jobs . 
i am pleased this year 's energy bill contains provisions for clean coal technologies to burn coal more efficiently and cleanly with the hope of achieving a healthier environment while maintaining jobs . 
specifically , i am referring to an important provision in h.r. 6 that authorizes $ 200 million for fiscal years 2006 through 2014 for the clean coal power initiative ( ccpi ) to direct the secretary of energy to carry out pollution control and coal gasification projects to promote environmentally safe energy production using performance goals for coal emissions , awarding grants and funding coal gasification projects . 
i am also pleased the energy bill again contains my language to create national centers for coal research , one of which is southern illinois university carbondale ( siuc ) because of the university 's proven record of demonstrating clean coal technologies . 
further , this year in the house science committee , i introduced a new initiative that in addition to the clean coal provisions , the bill contains provisions instrumental in helping increase conservation and lowering consumption . 
included in this are ethanol provisions that are used as a replacement and additive for gasoline consumption . 
under this legislation , ethanol use would increase , nearly tripling the current requirement . 
this is expected to increase the average price of corn paid to farmers 6.6 percent , or 16 cents per bushel and increase average net cash income to farmers by $ 3.3 billion over the next decade , or more than six percent . 
this increased use of ethanol will save 1.3 billion barrels of oil by 2016 , improve the trade deficit by $ 28.5 billion over 15 years , add $ 135 billion to the american economy by 2016 through increased agricultural although i am pleased the energy bill promotes essential investments in energy efficiency , renewable fuels , and advanced vehicle technologies , much more is needed . 
the security and environmental challenges can no longer be overlooked if our country wants to truly reduce our oil dependence . 
therefore , i am disappointed the boehlert/markey amendment which i supported did not pass . 
this would have increased the fuel economy of america 's vehicles to 33 miles per gallon by 2015 . 
the technology exists today to make all vehicles to go farther on a gallon of gas while improving safety and consumer choice . 
this amendment would save american consumers money at the gas pump , protects the environment , and cuts america 's dangerous dependence on oil . 
i am also disappointed an amendment offered by representatives markey and johnson that would prohibit drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge ( anwr ) . 
i have consistently opposed oil and gas exploration , development , and production in the arctic refuge and voted in favor of the markey/johnson amendment to strike the title from the bill . 
finally , i supported a motion to strike a provision in h.r. 6 that has been identified by the congressional budget office as an unfunded mandate on state and local governments and the private sector . 
this provision shifts the clean-up of methyl tertiary butyl ether ( mtbe ) , burden on communities and the federal government . 
clean up is a huge and growing problem in communities across the country , including my congressional district , as mtbe contamination is extremely expensive , and taxpayers should not be obligated to pick up the tab . 
mr. chairman , america deserves an energy policy that makes the country safer and more secure . 
there are many aspects of the energy bill , such as the coal and ethanol provisions that help illinois , and i will work with my colleagues to ensure they are an integral part of our energy future . 
