mr. chairman , as members of this house know , when i have objections to the content of a bill , i am not shy in stating them . 
there are certainly portions of this bill with which i do not agree , but i want to say that it is very unusual and it is a very pleasant experience to see a piece of legislation brought to the floor which is not so much a product of politics as it is a product of legislative craftsmanship . 
i think that is the case with this bill . 
i think that the gentleman from ohio and the gentleman from indiana working together in an absolutely bipartisan fashion have produced a bill which is obviously based on some intellectual decisions about how to approach problems rather than being based simply on political judgments , and that means that this place is performing as it should perform . 
it is not just being a political institution ; it is also being a legislative institution . 
that is happening in no small measure because of the leadership of the gentleman from ohio ( mr. hobson ) xz4001800 . 
that does not mean that i do not think this bill does not fall short in some areas . 
i think that the budget resolution has made it impossible for this committee to do a number of things that it ought to be doing in the area of energy research . 
lord knows , that is important these days with rising gas prices and all of the rest ; but i just want to say in my view , despite those shortcomings , this bill demonstrates that good government is good politics . 
the gentleman has brought to the floor a bill which is extremely responsible in terms of the way it deals with the nuclear weapons issues that were referenced by the gentleman from indiana . 
it is an extremely bipartisan product . 
while i have feelings about nuclear power that are very different than some other members in this chamber , i want to say i think the gentleman has produced , with the assistance of the gentleman from indiana , a very responsible bill ; and i fully intend to support it . 
i hope as the process goes along we will wind up having more resources to deal with some of the problems that are shortchanged . 
but with that exception , i do not think we can ask for a better legislative product ; and as someone who appreciates the traditions of this house , i want to extend my personal gratitude to the gentleman from ohio for his contribution in making this the fine product that it is . 
