mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes . 
mr. chairman , i want to thank the sponsors of the amendment and their intent and where they wanted to go . 
the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 has done a great job of focusing on a problem that is a problem . 
we all want accurate numbers on those stickers and times have changed . 
the gentleman from michigan and the gentlewoman from michigan , i think , have outlined exceptionally well why this perfecting amendment makes the intent of what our colleague wants to do exactly that . 
it clarifies it to the point that we do not get into cafe , we get accurate numbers , and we do not foist a whole set of new costs onto automakers who are today struggling to keep people employed . 
we want accurate numbers as well . 
but i will tell you , families across this country are suffering in the automobile industry . 
they are suffering . 
they have layoffs , they have job cuts , there is a lack of hope in some areas and anxiety you can not believe in others . 
so let us err on the side of those families . 
let us stand up today and say , yes , we should have accurate numbers on these stickers , the very true intent of what the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 and the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. holt ) xz4001840 are trying to do and trying to accomplish . 
let us do that , but we can do that without new costs , without new burdens , without even getting close to this argument that they are going to get into in the cafe debate , and accomplish exactly what they want . 
i think my colleagues can be proud of this amendment , as amended , back in their districts and tell people that they fought valiantly to get the 2005 standards on stickers for cars they are going to buy today . 
it is the right thing to do . 
so i would urge my colleague to look deep down and say , do i want to take the chance that i will put out one more american family out of work ? 
because i think you will . 
i passionately believe you will , the way your amendment is constructed . 
it will foist new , unnecessary costs on automakers . 
let us do it the way we know can accomplish what you want and have families at the end of the day saying , i am going to show up and build the finest cars in the world right here , in the great state of michigan , or any other of the 49 great states of this great country . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
