mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of h.r. 6 , the energy policy act of 2005 . 
passage of this comprehensive bill will ensure a more affordable , environmentally friendly energy supply . 
america 's prosperity and national security are at stake . 
the bill before us today is a balanced bill and it is a bipartisan bill . 
it will have lower energy prices over time for consumers , it will help spur our economy , create hundreds of thousands of jobs , and take unprecedented steps to promote greater energy conservation and efficiency . 
the energy policy act of 2005 , among other things , improves our nation 's electric transmission capacity ; promotes a cleaner environment with new innovations on alternative power sources , the clean cities authorization , and the hydrogen fuel cell car program ; it promotes clean coal technologies , provides incentives for renewable energies , such as biomass , wind , solar and hydroelectricity . 
the bill would provide leadership in energy conservation by establishing new mandatory efficiency requirements for federal buildings , and expands the energy star program to tell american consumers what products save the most energy . 
the bill also provides an efficient approval process for siting new liquified natural gas facilities . 
it would , for the first time , give an expedited procedure , hopefully in brownfield areas and high-unemployment areas , for expanding or building some new refineries . 
we have not built a new oil refinery in this country for the past 30 years . 
i could go on and on , mr. chairman , but simply let me say at the beginning of the debate that it is time for an energy policy for america . 
it is time for the house of representatives to say we want a strong economy based on the world 's best and most open free market for energy supplies , and also to put some incentives in for conservation . 
i strongly support the bill , and i look forward to the debate we are about to begin . 
