mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
we rise to make this a better amendment . 
if we want epa to do the testing , to make sure that things are right and labeling is correct , then we want to make sure that there is one test to do that . 
what we do not want to do is put additional funds , additional costs , additional measures on the auto industry that is already very fragile . 
so we rise in opposition to the johnson amendment and ask that our amendment be considered because the testing is there . 
we do not need to have two tests , as is required by the johnson amendment . 
it doubles the cost for product , and it allows the competition to be more advanced in our competition war than we are now considering . 
the auto industry in america is fragile . 
we all know that they have invested millions of dollars in their products to make them better , make them fuel efficient , do alternative energy sources . 
we believe that our amendment is a perfecting one ; and , yes , it requires that the epa do the proper tests , not two times but the one time that is required and that the labeling be accurate . 
we hope that our colleagues will support this rogers-kilpatrick amendment . 
it is a much better amendment , and again works with epa to make sure that the labeling is correct with the one test . 
consumers deserve to know that the sticker in their window actually reflects the mileage they will get on the road . 
the epa should revisit their fuel economy standards and the rogers/kilpatrick amendment would require the epa to change the adjustment factors that it currently uses to make the fuel economy label accurate . 
nancy johnson 's amendment requires the epa to change the `` testing procedures '' that auto companies use to determine the fuel economy numbers that go on the dealer label . 
her amendment would require two test auto companies to do one test for labeling and a separate test for cafe . 
johnson 's language doubles the cost to the companies . 
the rogers/kilpatrick amendment deals with the need for improved dealer label accuracy while only requiring one test . 
instead of requiring epa to change the `` testing procedures '' the rogers/kilpatrick amendment requires the epa to change the `` adjustment factors '' that epa currently uses to make the fuel economy label accurate . 
this simple change prevents the auto companies from having to run two separate tests . 
rather the auto companies can run one test that could be used and adjusted with appropriate factors to provide a more accurate fuel economy number . 
the rogers/kilpatrick perfecting amendment to the johnson amendment achieves precisely the same goal that the johnson amendment strives to achieve : accurate fuel economy labels on new cars . 
the only difference is that the rogers/kilpatrick amendment achieves this goal by having epa revise the current test , instead of compelling epa to conduct two separate tests . 
the rogers/kilpatrick perfecting amendment makes clear that the objective is to change the fuel economy label values -- not the test procedures . 
this will ensure that this measure will improve consumer information regarding mileage without imposing an increase in the stringency of cafe or creating a second fuel economy test for consumer labeling . 
the johnson amendment could threaten to increase the stringency of cafe . 
the johnson amendment would require epa to change fuel economy testing for label purposes . 
if the intent of this change is to create a new test for fuel economy labeling then the burden on automakers to test vehicles for both cafe and fuel economy labeling would increase substantially . 
if , however , the intention is to retain only one vehicle fuel economy test , then the test protocol currently used for determining cafe values will also be affected -- lowering the fleet fuel economy averages of manufacturers and making compliance with the cafe standards more stringent . 
depending upon the test procedure changes implemented , the stringency of the cafe standards could increase by 10-20 % ( or up to a 6 mpg increase in the stringency of the cafe requirements ) . 
