mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this legislation -- an $ 88 billion giveaway to the oil and gas industry that does nothing to alleviate the record high costs of oil and gas . 
at a time when science and common sense tells us we should be doing more research into alternative energy and less drilling in our precious public lands , this bill provides $ 8 billion in tax breaks for companies to do more drilling and less research into alternative energy . 
in an $ 88 billion bill , less than $ 500 million is dedicated to any kind of renewable energy research . 
the legislation promotes drilling in the last vestiges of the great american frontier -- places like alaska 's arctic refuge and the rocky mountain front -- ruining forever these examples of nature 's magnificence all for what amounts to 5 percent of a one year 's supply of oil . 
at the same time , it authorizes $ 80 billion in new spending to assist the big oil companies -- one reason conservative organizations such as taxpayers for common sense and citizens against government waste oppose this bill . 
just yesterday , the president expressed similar concerns as well . 
another provision gives legal protection to producers of mtbe -- a substance if consumed can cause a variety of health problems . 
i would like to also express my concern about two very important sections of this bill . 
section 330 limits the ability of state governments to oversee the permitting process of pipeline construction projects or construction of lng facilities , placing that responsibility solely within the ferc , with states relegated to a consultative role . 
this would eviscerate my state government 's ability to regulate proposed projects in the long island sound , despite the state 's undisputed leadership in the clean-up of the sound . 
to say we do not trust connecticut to act in the best interests of one of its most prized natural resources is bad public policy and i hope that an amendment offered by mr. castle to strike this section will be adopted . 
rather , we should be reducing our dependence on foreign oil by improving our energy efficiency and maximizing our domestic energy production in an environmentally-sound way -- by investing in cleaner , more secure energy sources such as solar , wind , biomass and fuel cell technology . 
my state of connecticut is a leader in fuel cell technology , with several businesses doing research that is on the cusp of revolutionizing the way our nation powers its homes , cars and businesses . 
this bill should be investing in american small businesses like proton energy in wallingford , nxegen in middletown and danbury 's fuel cell energy -- companies that already do over $ 300 million worth of fuel cell business and move us closer to true energy independence . 
that is the future of energy in this country , and that is what this bill should be encouraging . 
by pressing for 20th century solutions to deal with 21st century energy challenges , this majority continues us down the road of ever-rising gas prices , harming our economy and leaving middle-class families to bear the brunt of the cost . 
and that is no plan , mr. chairman -- it is an abdication of our responsibilities . 
oppose this bill . 
