mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the energy legislation that we are debating on the house floor today . 
as an energy scientist who spent nearly a decade working at one of the nation 's premiere alternative energy research labs i understand the complex and challenging nature of moving toward sustainable energy sources . 
having served in this body for more than six years , i understand the difficulties in balancing competing interests to obtain a policy that benefits the nation . 
unfortunately , rather than providing a productive and clear vision that leads this nation towards energy independence , this bill subsidizes oil and gas companies and eases environmental regulations and fails to put the u.s. on the right path . 
this legislation sets a dangerous precedent by allowing the destruction of one of our national treasures to extract a minimal amount of resources . 
the very essence of the arctic refuge is that it is a pristine and untouched ecosystem . 
this unique environment serves as a critical breeding or migratory habitat for over 200 species of animals including polar and grizzly bears . 
arctic wolves , and endangered species like the shaggy musk ox . 
this legislation completely ignores the precious nature of this land and instead provides yet one more opportunity for oil and gas companies to expand their operations . 
if this legislation is approved all americans will lose something special and irreplaceable . 
there are some good points in this bill . 
it does authorize increases in research on efficiency and renewable energy in future years . 
and i would like to thank my colleagues for accepting my amendment for a study of fuel savings from information technology for transportation . 
but the good points of the bill are far outweighed by the bad . 
instead of investing in cleaner , long term solutions , this bill brushes aside our nation 's future energy needs in order to provide nearly 8 billion of taxpayer dollars to the oil , gas and other traditional energy industries to promote short-term , polluting energy sources . 
these tax incentives should not be going to industries that are thriving , but should be used to invest in our future by increasing research funding for alternative energy sources such as wind energy , fuel cells and fusion . 
everyone knows that we have a serious energy problem in this country . 
our dependence on foreign oil affects not only our economy but also our national security . 
we will never drill our way to independence domestically . 
yet we have an energy bill that is stuck in the past that yet again seeks to drill a little deeper , in a few more places . 
we need a responsible and sustainable approach to addressing our nation 's energy needs . 
on behalf of the residents of the 12th district , i pledge to continue to work toward the development of a balanced , comprehensive energy plan -- one that finds environmentally friendly , sustainable ways to decrease our dependence on foreign oil and slow the degradation of our planet . 
