mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
today i rise to offer my amendment to strike the refinery revitalization provisions in h.r. 6 . 
the refinery revitalization provisions are the biggest environmental and public health injustices that the congress and bush administration can perpetrate on the american people . 
the bill would strip our states and communities and local air boards and other federal agencies of existing authorities and give these authorities to the department of energy . 
the energy czar is then required to establish refinery revitalization zones in more than 1 , 200 counties and , in each instance , can veto our states and communities . 
this language is crafted on false premises . 
in two separate letters in the summer and fall of 2004 , the epa stated that it was not aware of any pending permits under the public health laws we are undermining . 
according to the 2005 energy information administration 's annual energy outlook , refining capacity is expected to grow through 2025 under existing laws . 
the refinery revitalization provisions are opposed by a wide variety of groups . 
the following are 15 national entities representing public entities , health care entities and civil rights organizations : the national association of counties , the national conference of state legislatures , the national league of cities , the u.s. conference of mayors , the environmental council of states , the state and territorial air pollution program administrators , the association of local pollution control officials , the south coast air quality management district in california , all major environmental and public health groups including the league of conservation voters , the national hispanic environmental council , the national council of la raza , and the league of united latin american citizens . 
most of the neighborhoods in refinery communities are low-income minority communities with the least availability to defend themselves from corporate pollution , and most are vulnerable to environmental and public health problems , yet are targets in this very language . 
more than 70 percent of latinos and african americans live in counties with dirty air . 
latino children have asthma at a much higher rate than non-latino children , and death rates from asthma among african americans are 2.5 time higher than for whites . 
yet this language would put the department of energy in charge of protecting our health . 
perhaps before we harm the health of most underserved populations , before we strip states and communities of their rights to protect themselves , and before we turn a good part of this nation into a refinery revitalization zone , perhaps we should have a real dialogue , that would have tremendous impacts in our communities , that would truly represent those concerns and voices we represent . 
i urge my colleagues to support my amendment to protect our communities and support the amendment to strike this egregious language . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
