madam chairman , i yield the balance of my time to myself . 
i guess here we go again . 
you know , we have had the opportunity in the house four or five times to debate the energy bill . 
and i look at the history of energy policy in this country and the efforts of congress to try to deal with the very real energy demands that we have today in this country . 
we are not providing enough energy to meet the demands that we have . 
you know , you go back 30 years ago , and the united states was dependent on foreign energy about 30 percent . 
about 30 percent of our oil came from foreign sources . 
we did very little to deal with that . 
there was a pledge made by then-president carter that we were going to become independent . 
the president and succeeding presidents have talked about becoming independent from foreign oil . 
but we did not adopt the kind of policies that we had to to increase the amount of domestic production so that we were not so dependent on foreign oil . 
i look at it today and nearly two-thirds of the energy that we consume in this country comes from foreign countries . 
and that is a direct result of the failure on the part of congress to pass a national energy policy . 
we have not addressed that . 
i look at what we are doing wrong in terms of producing additional energy in this country . 
and i think if you listen to the debate from some of my colleagues , you know what we are doing wrong . 
yeah , you know , we did not have a lot of dinosaurs die under yosemite or yellowstone , you are right ; but we had a whole heck a lot of them die in the arctic plains . 
there is oil and gas in alaska . 
it is there . 
we all know it is there . 
and yet we still have the same people year after year after year coming down , whether gas is $ 20 a barrel or $ 60 a barrel they are still opposed to doing it . 
we have the same people come down here year after year after year that opposed putting a pipeline to move that gas from alaska to the lower 48 states . 
we have the same people who come to the floor year after year and oppose every single attempt that is made to increase the amount of energy produced in this country . 
year after year they oppose it . 
last year we had an amendment to make it easier to site renewable energy on federal lands . 
and the same people that are down here today opposing this bill opposed that bill on renewable energy . 
yeah , you know , it all sounds great . 
you can come down here and talk about how we need more renewable energy . 
but when you have a chance to vote for it , you vote no ; and you do it every single time . 
you know , we hear this over and over again . 
you know , when the bill moved through the committee , we had 20 or 25 amendments . 
not a single one of those amendments was a partisan vote , a party-line vote . 
every single one of them we had members of the minority and majority that joined together to either pass or defeat the amendment . 
there was so much support for this bill coming out of the resources committee , it passed on a voice vote . 
every time that we get this bill up before the house , it passes with both majority and minority votes . 
there is support for doing this . 
i ask my colleagues with $ 55 a barrel oil , do you not think it is time that you did something ? 
if you do not like this bill , where is your alternative ? 
because as of yet all you do is the same old rhetoric . 
