mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i rise for two reasons : first , to support the right of america 's small , independent gas and auto repair stations to a level playing field ; and second , because we all know that a level playing field ensures free and fair markets , competition and lower gas prices . 
in recent years , we have seen a sweeping consolidation of the oil industry at almost every level , the manufacturing level , wholesalers , refiners , and retailers . 
one corporation can control the prices at every single step , and that increases prices at the street corner . 
my amendment is very straightforward . 
it directs the comptroller general to study the effects of consolidation on prices , on market economics , and small business ownership . 
most people who live in a community for a long time are accustomed to talking about their local service station , where they know their mechanic and their owner , where they know the prices ; but those days are in the past . 
now their local facility is controlled by a giant corporation which has gobbled up their local facility . 
and lower prices on the street corner have also become a thing of the past . 
in 2002 , the senate committee on government reform permanent subcommittee on investigations studied consolidation of fuel refineries . 
the subcommittee 's findings are now over 3 years old , and are alarming in their prescience . 
as the report indicated , corporate interests are dominating pricing , controlling the market and pricing out privately owned retail outlets . 
corporations are earning windfall profits while privately owned stations are struggling to keep afloat . 
the subcommittee did not focus on wholesale and retail consolidation . 
this amendment would achieve that goal and give us the data we need to ensure that consumers are protected from price inflation and our small business owners can compete in a fair market . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich ) xz4002270 . 
