mr. chairman , here we go again . 
as i said , this is the third time , and it should be a charm . 
we have passed this comprehensive legislation before ; and i know i speak for a lot of my colleagues , probably on both sides of the aisle , that we should finally move forward after the large increases in gasoline . 
this is a timely piece of legislation . 
the department of energy predicts by the year 2025 , u.s. oil and natural gas demand will rise by 46 percent with energy demand increasing 1 percent for every 2 percent in gdp growth . 
this increase in demand at home , coupled with the explosion of demand worldwide , has led to the increase in the cost of crude oil . 
to combat this , and the resulting record gas prices , the american people today are looking for congress to act and we are doing it . 
this legislation contains a number of provisions that would lower gas prices . 
h.r. 6 encourages more domestic production of oil , promotes a greater refining capacity , and increases the gasoline supply by stopping the proliferation of expensive regional boutique fuels . 
mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 6 and finally enact solid , comprehensive energy legislation for the american people . 
mr. chairman , here we go again . 
as they say , the third time 's the charm . 
this is the third congress in a row we have tried to pass comprehensive energy legislation . 
i know i speak for many of my colleagues in saying i hope we can finally move forward and enact this very important and increasingly timely legislation . 
as we all know too well , energy is the lifeblood of the economy . 
the availability of energy at reasonable prices is key to economic growth and stability . 
comprehensive national energy policy must ensure affordable , reliable energy and also promote national security . 
h.r. 6 does that and i urge all my colleagues to support it . 
the department of energy predicts that by the year 2025 , u.s. oil and natural gas demand will rise by 46 percent , with energy demand increasing 1 percent for every 2 percent growth in gdp . 
this increased demand at home , coupled with an explosion of demand worldwide , has lead to an increase in the cost of crude oil . 
to combat this and the resulting record gas prices , the american people are looking to congress to act . 
this legislation contains a number of provisions that would lower gas prices . 
h.r. 6 encourages more domestic production of oil , promotes a greater refining capacity , and increases the gasoline supply by stopping the proliferation of expensive regional boutique fuels . 
ending our dependence on foreign oil is not only important to the economy but also doubly important to national security . 
currently , the u.s. imports about 60 percent of its oil . 
the department of energy projects this number will increase to 73 percent by the year 2025 . 
in order to ensure reliable and secure supplies of oil , we have no choice but to increase the domestic supply . 
another way h.r. 6 increases domestic production of oil is by opening anwr to oil and gas exploration . 
usgs estimates that there is between 5.7 and 16.0 billion barrels of oil that is technically recoverable . 
this estimate does not take into account that with new technology , the share will become higher . 
a resource of this magnitude can not simply be ignored . 
h.r. 6 goes a long way to end our reliance on foreign oil . 
i once again urge my colleagues to support h.r. 6 and finally enact solid , comprehensive energy legislation for the american people . 
