mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , as my colleague said a moment ago , this amendment is laudable , and i admire the gentleman for pushing it ; but i have to say that , in reality , it is really special treatment for one company , with one facility , in one state . 
pure energy corporation is the only company i know of in the united states to have a patent for technology that can convert urban waste into a doe-recognized fuel called a p-series fuel . 
this amendment would grant enormous latitude for the application for this one technology to benefit this one company , and it is really not a matter of national policy . 
further , the company in question also receives funding and grants from the doe in support of this technology . 
this is the type of action that government agencies are designed and delegated to do , to spot promising technologies and financially assist their development , and they are doing that . 
government agencies are a lot better suited to determine the value of burgeoning technologies in their respective fields than congress would be , and we should leave these decisions to the experts . 
i might go on further and say that this amendment essentially provides for the expansion of national policy for the benefit of one type of fuel , the p-series fuel , and the one technology that can produce it . 
the production quantities of the fuel are so minimal that it is unlikely to have any part of an impact on a national scale . 
and , finally , there are only two vehicle manufacturers that currently produce flexible fuel vehicles that have engines that are compatible to this type of fuel . 
the consumer market for this product is extremely limited . 
with high gas prices , this type of fuel is not cost competitive and is even more expensive than regular fuel . 
for this reason it does not please me to oppose a member of congress who is supporting his own and goes that extra mile for his constituents that he represents , but i have to point out that actually this will not have an impact on a national scale and is not a matter of national policy . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
