mr. speaker , i yield myself the remaining time . 
mr. speaker , first of all , with regard to the rule , the majority just does not get it . 
out of 90 amendments that were offered last night in the committee on rules , there were 22 democratic amendments made in order . 
thanks for making the 22 amendments in order ; but quite frankly , it is not enough . 
this is the energy bill . 
this is an important bill . 
as my colleagues have heard from various members here today , a lot of important amendments were not made in order . 
the gentlewoman from california ( mrs. capps ) xz4000620 talked about the mtbe issue . 
her amendment was not made in order . 
the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. eddie bernice johnson ) xz4002040 just talked about her clean air amendment which was not made in order . 
the gentleman from west virginia ( mr. rahall ) xz4003310 had a coal amendment which was not made in order . 
the gentleman from maryland ( mr. gilchrest ) xz4001490 , the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. olver ) xz4003010 , and the gentleman from maryland ( mr. van hollen ) xz4004150 had an amendment on global warming , to come up with a strategy to deal with it . 
that was not made in order . 
my colleagues heard from the gentlewoman from nevada ( ms. berkley ) xz4000240 talk about yucca mountain . 
her amendment was not made in order . 
tax credits for hybrid cars . 
the gentleman from michigan ( mr. dingell ) xz4001100 talked about hydroelectric licensing . 
that was not made in order . 
so a lot of very important and vital issues , we have been shut out from offering them here today . 
if we are going to have a real democracy and a real debate on this issue , these important issues should have a place for debate here on the house floor . 
let me just finally say instead of bringing up yet another bill that rewards corporate donors , i wish the leadership on the other side would think about the future , about the world our children and grandchildren will inherit and give us an energy bill that actually makes the world a better place . 
this bill does not do it , and i would urge my colleagues to vote against it . 
