mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
i rise in support of the resolution . 
h.r. 748 , the child interstate abortion notification act , makes it illegal to transport a minor across state lines for the purposes of getting an abortion . 
now , transport is not defined in the bill . 
when the judiciary committee marked up the bill , i offered an amendment which said simply that we should exempt taxicab drivers and others in the business of professional transport from the transportation provisions of the bill , because as written , it would be a federal crime for a taxicab driver to take a young woman who gets in a cab and says , take me to the abortion clinic so i can get an abortion . 
if the taxicab driver complied with that task , he would be committing a federal crime . 
now , even if he were not prosecuted , there is a civil liability provision in the bill which exposes the cab driver and through the principles of agency , the entire cab company , to civil liability by the parents of the young woman who find out how she got to the clinic . 
so let me read my amendment : `` the prohibitions of this section shall not apply with respect to conduct of taxicab drivers , bus drivers or others in the business of professional transport. '' however , the report in the markup filed by the majority described the amendment thusly : `` mr. scott xz4003641 offered an amendment that would have exempted sexual predators from prosecution if they are taxicab drivers , bus drivers or others in the business of professional transport. '' now , i will let the public decide whether or not that is a distortion . 
i believe that it is . 
but i would just say that if a prosecutor has evidence that a person is a sexual predator , the last thing they would do would be to go to this provision of the code , which is a misdemeanor , rather than the various felonies that they could prosecute the person for . 
the amendment does not immunize a sexual predator from the crimes of being a sexual predator , just the provisions of this transportation provision which is just a misdemeanor . 
now , mr. speaker , let me just say , in any event , whatever you think of the bill , this distortion obviously speaks to character ; but in my view , the descriptions in the committee report and the distortion of those amendments , particularly the one i just described , say more about the character of the person responsible for describing the amendment that way and the character of those trying to defend the distortion , than it does about my amendment . 
i would therefore , mr. speaker , hope that we would pass the resolution so that the house will not be on record as condoning such misrepresentations . 
