mr. speaker , let me begin by quoting from section 1001 , title 18 of the united states code that also applies to the legislative branch . 
`` anyone knowingly and willfully falsifies , conceals or covers up by any trick , scheme or device a material fact ; 2 , makes any materially false , fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation ; or , 3 , makes or uses any false writing or document , knowing the same to contain any materially false , fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry , shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 5 years or both. '' the committee on rules discovered last week that the committee on the judiciary report on the child interstate abortion notification act , authored by the majority staff , in conflict obviously to the united states code , contained amendment summaries that had been rewritten by the staff for the sole purpose of distorting the original intent of the authors . 
i have to admit i was livid . 
i was certain it must have been an oversight because i could not imagine that the committee on the judiciary , of all things , or the committee on the judiciary chairman , whom i have known for 18 years , would stand by a committee report that would so deeply mischaracterize and falsify the intent of several amendments offered by democrat members of the committee . 
at least five amendments to the bill , designed to protect the rights of family members and innocent bystanders from prosecution , were completely rewritten to make as though it was the original intent of the authors . 
this is a shocking abuse of power , and it must not stand . 
the fact is that the republican majority must do the right thing here today . 
they must give us a new committee report containing the proper captions so that it accurately reflects the intentions of the authors . 
furthermore , i think the chairman of the committee owes those members an apology for soiling their reputation in the names of partisan politics . 
to falsely rewrite the intent of amendments submitted by another member , to intentionally distort its description is unacceptable . 
no member should go through what our colleagues have had to go through . 
none of us should have our reputations dragged through the mud . 
it is absolutely arrogant of this majority to believe that they can tamper with official congressional documents for political purposes . 
it is absolutely arrogant , and the american people will not be pleased with it . 
it is an affront not only to those of us in the house but to the american people and to history , mr. speaker ; and unless it is amended , i am sure that we will see these again in the form of campaign attack mail pieces , and honorable , hardworking members of this congress will be forever branded . 
no wonder we have a lack of civility in this house . 
