mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from michigan ( mr. conyers ) xz4000800 for yielding me time . 
i see the logic of the majority . 
if they were commenting on the bill of rights , the fourth amendment is an amendment designed to quash evidence coming from an unlawful search and seizure that could allow the conviction of sexual predators . 
the fifth amendment gives sexual predators the right to protect themselves from self-incrimination . 
the sixth amendment allows wily and cunning lawyers to use cross examination and technical rules to keep sexual predators from getting convicted . 
this is how the majority chooses to interpret , in this particular case , the substance and the intent of a series of amendments made to the bill we voted on last week . 
i have great respect for the chairman of the committee . 
he is a fair and honest man , and he has worked hard to defend the jurisdiction of the committee . 
and what has been done here with this majority report in that context is a tremendous disappointment to me . 
it essentially left us with no recourse but to bring a motion like this to the floor of the house . 
to create the absurd situation and then characterize the result of a particular amendment by that absurd situation does not do any justice or any service to this process , to this institution , or to our committee . 
we depend , we in the minority depend on a process that relies on honesty and good faith and the duties and those duties , i truly believe , were breached in the case of this report . 
the minority has regarded to file its dissenting views without the benefit of having to have seen the report which they are dissenting . 
that is inherently an illogical system , but we have gone along with it , but when something like this happens , it raises serious questions about the legitimacy of that particular process . 
i think a great wrong has been done to several members of this body by virtue of the way the majority has characterized this amendment . 
i think those characterizations should be withdrawn . 
i think an apology should be made to them , and i urge the passage of this motion . 
