mr. speaker , i particularly want to thank the distinguished gentleman from michigan ( mr. conyers ) xz4000800 for allowing us to debate today , really , the integrity of the house . 
this debate is not about the underlying bill , h.r. 748 . 
that is not what it is about . 
it simply is about those in power abusing power , taking advantage of the minority , and not telling the truth . 
frankly , the amendments that were offered , there is no language whatsoever that would equate to the description that was in the final report or the report of the particular committee . 
in fact , as the resolution reads , although it is the long and established practice on house reports to describe recorded votes with objective , nonargumentative captions , the committee on the judiciary majority departed from the practice in house report 109-51 by captioning those five amendments with inflammatory , inaccurate captions , implying that these three members of congress were engaging in criminal behavior . 
let me tell you that my constituents said to me , we are glad that you are concerned about grandparents and clergy . 
that is what the amendment was about . 
and the inaccuracy subjected the members , the gentleman from virginia ( mr. scott ) xz4003641 , the gentleman from new york ( mr. nadler ) xz4002890 , and myself , to ridicule , and , of course , disparaging remarks in newspaper articles around the nation . 
now , in the course of debate , we welcome the ability to debate passionately about these issues . 
we welcome the media 's criticism about the accuracy of the work that we do in this body . 
but what we do not welcome is a direct mischaracterization of these actual words that were being written and put forward in the debate in the judiciary committee . 
and so i would ask my colleagues to support this resolution , because , again , as you get up time after time to debate the underlying bill , mr. speaker , this is not the issue . 
the issue is , in the report , you mischaracterized three members of congress whose language did not say anything about what you represented it to be : nothing about criminal behavior , simply to protect the rights of grandparents and clergy , simply to protect the rights of those who innocently might be carrying individuals across state lines . 
i can not imagine , in the history of this congress , why an amendment offered by jackson-lee that had to do with a gao study turned out to be criminal behavior , or an amendment that had to do with clergy and grandparents turned out to be criminal behavior . 
mr. sensenbrenner , i would simply ask , in the sense of comity , collegiality , respect , that this be clarified and you ask your colleagues to support this privileged resolution , because the members of the judiciary committee must go back to room 2141 in rayburn and sit down and address the laws of this land and the constitution of the united states of america . 
we should not be divided on upholding the laws of this land because of the lack of judiciousness of the writing of a report that could be solved today . 
mr. speaker , i ask my colleagues to support the privileged resolution to clarify the record and to make this right by the american people and the members of the house . 
mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the resolution introduced by the gentleman from michigan , the distinguished ranking member of the committee on the judiciary , from where the underlying legislation was initially reported . 
in introducing this resolution , he has attempted to `` set the record straight '' with respect to house report 109-51 and the way that it has been patently malreported and maligned the authors of amendments to h.r. 748 , the child interstate abortion notification act of 2005 . 
rule ix , paragraph ( 1 ) of the house rules states that : questions of privilege shall be , first , those affecting the rights of the house collectively , its safety , dignity , and the integrity of its proceedings ; and second , those affecting the rights , reputation , and conduct of members , delegates , or the resident commissioner , individually , in their representative capacity only . 
this resolution was properly and justifiably introduced because , in this case , the privileges of `` dignity '' and `` the integrity of [ the house 's ] proceedings '' have been patently violated . 
to purposefully misreport the good-faith amendments that have been offered by members of this venerable house debases the nature and trustworthiness of the house report . 
after this debacle , members will have to scan committee reports with a fine-toothed comb -- not for substantive value , but for accuracy and veracity of their reporting value . 
this is the diminution of the dignity of the process . 
this is the diminution of the integrity of the house . 
my distinguished colleagues have joined to introduce this resolution in order to make it clear to the american people that we do not associate ourselves with the misreported portions of house report 109-51 . 
i plan to offer a similar resolution that speaks specifically to the nature of the misreporting of amendments that i offered during the committee markup of h.r. 748 . 
one point that my resolution will make is that house report 109-51 not only improperly made negative inferences as to the import and intent of my amendments , but it combined two distinct and separately-offered amendments into one . 
in terms of the personal privileges violated by the report , the misreporting -- and the malreporting of the amendments offered by my colleagues mr. scott , mr. nadler , and me affected our rights , reputation , and conduct . 
as founder and chair of the congressional children 's caucus , a report that cites an amendment offered by me that would exempt sexual predators from liability is at the very least offensive . 
my constituents and the constituents of my colleagues do read house reports , and the nefarious language that the chairman avers as representative of his true intentions should be highlighted as contrary to the ideals on which this house , this government , and this nation were established . 
