mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from new york ( ms. slaughter ) xz4003780 , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
during consideration of this resolution , all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only . 
mr. speaker , on wednesday the committee on rules met and reported a rule for consideration of the conference report on h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental act for defense , the global war on terror , and tsunami relief act , 2005 . 
the rule waives all points of order against the conference report and provides that the report shall be considered as read . 
additionally , it authorizes the chairman of the house committee on the judiciary to file a supplemental report to accompany h.r. 748 . 
mr. speaker , h.r. 1268 , the emergency supplemental appropriation , is intended to fully fund our forces overseas and at home . 
it helps to ensure the full funding of the important accounts which have been depleted during our global war on terror and our effort to assist the iraqi and afghan people in their efforts to establish functioning democracies in their countries . 
additionally , the bill includes important funding for afghan reconstruction and counter-terrorism assistance , counternarcotics efforts , international food aid , and relief to address the terrible tragedies resulting from the massive tsunami that struck the southwest pacific and indian oceans in december of 2004 . 
mr. speaker , additionally , this rule provides important increases in coverage for the servicemembers ' group life insurance and increases coverage for individual soldiers from $ 250 , 000 to $ 400 , 000 . 
it also increases the one-time death benefit from $ 12 , 000 to $ 100 , 000 . 
while neither of these benefits can ever replace the lives of brave american service personnel lost in action , they can assist their families through the hard times they will face while recovering from the loss of their loved ones . 
mr. speaker , house resolution 258 allows us to fully debate the important issues surrounding the war on terror . 
just yesterday we saw on the front page of the washington post a graphic photograph that captured the terrible effects of the war on an innocent victim and the courage and compassion of the american soldiers who are engaged in the battle . 
we should keep this image in mind as we commence the debate on the conference report today . 
more than any words i could ever utter , that picture illustrates the nobility of our effort , the valor and decency of our soldiers , and the evil and fanaticism of our enemies . 
many may wish to raise policy issues in this debate . 
that is certainly appropriate . 
others may want to discuss issues that , however important , are superfluous to the war on terrorism . 
mr. speaker , i believe in this discussion we should focus our remarks on what truly counts . 
we have committed 170 , 000 of our servicemen and -women to fight terrorism and advance the cause of freedom in iraq and afghanistan . 
we owe them our full support in the battles they wage on behalf of the american people and the cause of liberty . 
this rule and the underlying bill represent the efforts of congress to keep that solemn commitment to the sons and daughters of america . 
mr. speaker , to that end i urge support for the rule and the underlying bill . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
