i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
mr. chairman , addressing gang violence across this nation is absolutely an important step so that people can feel safe in their communities and so that our youth will grow up to be productive , happy , satisfied adults . 
while i commend my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for addressing this important issue , i am deeply disappointed in their legislation . 
gang violence affects most communities across the united states . 
in fact , i represented the sixth district of california , which is north of the golden gate bridge from san francisco . 
in my district , there is no exception . 
we too have gang violence . 
the largest city in my district , santa rosa , is increasingly faced with gang violence . 
drive-by shootings are becoming so common that the newspapers no longer report the incidents on the front page . 
local communities must address this problem , no question ; and santa rosa is working hard to do so . 
with the help of new state of california funding through measure zero , a sales tax that passed in the last go-around , the city is providing diversion programs that appeal to youth , such as after-school programs and increased recreational activities . 
community leaders are finding more job opportunities for young people , and adults are mentoring them and exposing them to situations that are positive alternatives to gang life . 
even the conservative think tank , mr. speaker , the heritage foundation , agrees that these are the best ways to curb gang violence . 
this bill does not provide significant funding to states and local communities to build on their successful local programs . 
rather , h.r. 1279 creates new death penalties , mandatory minimum sentences , and measures to prosecute children in adult court , in other words , applying adult punishment to young people . 
this is the wrong approach , and i can not support it . 
i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing h.r. 1279 and insisting that we go back and prepare legislation with real workable solutions and alternatives to gang violence . 
