mr. speaker , i think , if one is around here long enough , they get to the point where they do not believe they could be shocked by anything . 
but when i heard the other side a while ago say that they believe that giving arts and crafts to violent gang members will do more to deter crime than empowering law enforcement agents and locking up gang members in jail , that , i have to admit , still shocks me . 
mr. speaker , i include for the record a letter from the national latino peace officers association , which supports all the provisions of this bill and asks that this bill be passed ; from the fraternal order of police that supports this bill and asks that it be passed ; from the national association of police organizations , which supports this bill and asks that it be passed ; from the national sheriffs ' association , which supports the provisions of this bill and asks that it be passed ; from the law enforcement alliance of america , which supports the provisions of this bill and asks that it be passed ; from the national troopers coalition ; from the california gang investigators association ; from the los angeles deputy sheriffs office ; and from the major county sheriffs ' association . 
and , mr. speaker , we will have a lot more as the day goes on . 
major county sheriff 's association , alexandria , virginia , april 20 , 2005 . 
dear chairman sensenbrenner : on behalf of the major county sheriffs ' association , i am writing to express our support for h.r. 1279 , the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005. '' this much needed legislation takes a necessary step toward addressing the growing epidemic of gang violence that is affecting our entire nation and has even stretched into some of our most rural communities . 
the department of justice estimates there are currently over 25 , 000 gangs and over 750 , 000 gang members who are active in more than 3 , 000 jurisdictions across the united states . 
gang activity has been directly linked to the narcotics trade , human trafficking , identification documentation falsification and the use of firearms to commit deadly shootings . 
h.r. 1279 would address the growing problem of gang violence by creating a rational strategy to identify , apprehend and prosecute gangs across the nation . 
specifically , the bill would provide for the designation of high intensity gang areas ( higas ) to identify , target and eliminate violent gangs in areas where gang activity is particularly prevalent . 
the bill would also create a statute to prosecute criminal gangs similar to the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations statute ( rico ) that has proven so effective against organized crime , and would provide more than $ 385 million over the next five years in grants to support federal , state , and local law enforcement efforts against violent gangs , and to coordinate law enforcement agencies ' efforts to share intelligence and jointly prosecute violent gangs . 
finally , under h.r. 1279 , several categories of gang-related offense would be subject to mandatory minimum sentences of at least 30 years in prison for cases of kidnapping , aggravated sexual assault or maiming . 
the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 '' is a comprehensive piece of legislation that addresses both the enforcement and prosecution aspects of the battle against gang violence . 
thank you for your time and attention , as well as your continued support of law enforcement . 
sincerely , sheriff michael j. bouchard , sheriff james a. karnes , los angeles deputy sheriffs , inc. , los angeles , california , april 20 , 2005 . 
dear chairman sensenbrenner : on behalf of the members of the association for los angeles deputy sheriffs ( alads ) , which represents over 7 , 000 deputy sheriffs and district attorney investigators in los angeles county . 
i am writing in support of h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 , and h.r. 1528 , defending america 's most vulnerable : safe access to drug treatment and child protection act of 2005 . 
h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 not only designates high intensity gang areas and authorizes funds to combat gang activity , it creates a new gang prosecution statute ; increases penalties for violent gang crimes ; and limits a criminal street gang to a group or association of three or more individuals that commit two or more gang crimes . 
h.r. 1528 , defending america 's most vulnerable : safe access to drug treatment and child protection act of 2005 , provides for sound statutory reforms of ineffective anti-drug laws designed to protect children . 
alads strongly supports both h.r. 1279 , and h.r. 1528 . 
sincerely , roy l. burns , investigators association , huntington beach , ca , april 25 , 2005 . 
dear representative sensenbrenner : mr. chairman , as president of the california gang investigators association ( cgia ) i am writing to offer the support of the association for h.r. 1279 , the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 and h.r. 1528 , defending america 's most vulnerable : safe access to drug treatment and child protection act of 2005 . 
the association supports the legislative effort to curb gang violence and the associated criminal drug networks that goes hand-in-hand with street gang activity . 
we have supported the efforts of senators hatch and feinstein in their anti-gang efforts and stand ready to be of any assistance we can be in your committee 's efforts to obtain the same goals . 
street gangs continue to spread their unique brand of urban terrorism across our nation . 
not only have they become prevalent in most urban inner cities , but have become a scourge in our rural communities as well , presenting a threat to this nation 's bread basket . 
as i travel around this country lecturing to these communities it seems their primary concern for their personal safety is not from some foreign terrorist but their greatest fear is of the local street gangs . 
hundreds upon hundreds of americans are slain every year by street gangs , and thousands more injured . 
this legislation provides new law which will aid in this strugg1e , not only attacking the gangs but with its companion bill , begins to focus on their drug business as well . 
if our association can be of any further assistance to you please feel free to contact me . 
sincerely yours , wesley d. mcbride , national troopers coalition , green bay , wi . 
dear chairman sensenbrenner : as chairman of the national troopers coalition , ( ntc ) i am writing to express our support for h.r. 1279 , gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 . 
the ntc represents over 40 , 000 state troopers and highway patrolmen throughout the united states . 
we urge you to continue your work on fighting gang violence in america ; we support all of the provisions contained in h.r. 1279 . 
our members continue to deal with increased gang crimes and violence , as we have for years . 
the provisions of h.r. 1279 , that in part deal with increased penalties , clarification of definitions , and increased resources and appropriations will greatly aid us and our law enforcement counterparts with gang investigations , deterrence and prevention . 
accordingly , on behalf of our members , we fully support and urge passage of h.r. 1279 . 
sincerely , casey l. perry , alliance of america , falls church , va. , april 19 , 2005 . 
dear chairman sensenbrenner : on behalf of the more than 75 , 000 members and supporters of the law enforcement alliance of america ( leaa ) , i am writing to express our strong support for the gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 ( h.r. 1279 ) . 
this legislation provides law enforcement and prosecutors with much needed tools to combat the growing organized threat of violence from criminal street gangs . 
today 's gang violence problem is not one of neighborhoods , but increasingly an interstate and even international operation involving highly structured and extremely violent criminal enterprises . 
h.r. 1279 recognizes this growing menace and provides a much needed response . 
by providing state and local law enforcement with the additional resources to pursue such criminals and giving prosecutors additional tools to punish such criminals . 
h.r. 1279 offers a significant opportunity to make an impact in the fight against violent crime . 
i respectfully ask for your support for this much needed federal initiative . 
if you have any questions about leaa 's position on h.r. 1279 or any other matter , feel free to have your staff contact our legislative director , kevin watson at ( 703 ) 847-2677 . 
sincerely , james j. fotis , national sheriffs ' association , alexandria , virginia , april 19 , 2005 . 
dear chairman sensenbrenner : i am writing on behalf of the national sheriffs ' association and the 3 , 087 sheriffs across the country to express our full support for h.r. 1279 , the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005. '' this much needed legislation takes a necessary step toward addressing the growing epidemic of gang violence that is affecting our entire nation and has even stretched into some of our most rural communities . 
the department of justice estimates there are currently over 25 , 000 gangs and over 750 , 000 gang members who are active in more than 3 , 000 jurisdictions across the united states . 
gang activity has been directly linked to the narcotlcs trade , human trafficking , identification documentation falsification and the use of firearms to commit deadly shootings . 
h.r. 1279 would effectively address the growing problem of gang violence by creating a rational strategy to identify , apprehend , and prosecute gangs across the nation . 
specifically , the bill would provide for the designation of high intensity gang areas ( higas ) to identify , target and eliminate violent gangs in areas where gang activity is particularly prevalent . 
the bill would also create a statute to prosecute criminal gangs similar to the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations statute ( rico ) that has proven so effective against organized crime , and would provide more than $ 385 million over the next five years in grants to support federal , state , and local law enforcement efforts against violent gangs , and to coordinate law enforcement agencies ' efforts to share intelligence and jointly prosecute violent gangs . 
finally , under h.r. 1279 , several categories of gang-related offense would be subject to mandatory minimum sentences of at least 30 years in prison for cases of kidnapping , aggravated sexual assault or maiming . 
the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 '' is a comprehensive piece of legislation that addresses both the enforcement and prosecution aspects of the battle against gang violence . 
the national sheriffs ' association and its member sheriffs fully endorse h.r. 1279 and thank you for your continued support of law enforcement . 
sincerely , thomas n. faust , washington . 
d.c. , april 15 , 2005 . 
dear chairman sensenbrenner : on behalf of the national association of police organizations ( napo ) , representing 236 , 000 rank-and-file police officers from across the united states , i would like to thank you for introducing the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005 , '' and advise you of our support for the legislation . 
if enacted , this legislation will greatly assist state and local law enforcement in their efforts against gang expansion and violence . 
recent studies on gangs have estimated that over 25 , 000 different gangs , comprising over 750 , 000 members are active across the united states . 
100 percent of all cities larger than 250 , 000 have reported gang activity . 
compounding this problem , gangs have been directly linked to narcotics trade , human trafficking , identification document falsification , violent maiming , assault and murder , and the use of firearms to commit deadly shootings . 
the `` gang deterrence and community protection act '' works to reduce gang violence by designating high intensity gang areas ( higas ) and authorizing $ 20 million per year over five years to combat gang activity . 
it also creates a new gang prosecution statute focusing on street gangs and increases the penalties for violent gang crimes , strengthening prosecutors ' ability to combat gang activities . 
napo looks forward to fighting for this legislation 's passage and i thank you for your continued support of law enforcement . 
if you have any questions , please feel free to contact me , or napo 's legislative assistant , andrea mournighan , at ( 202 ) 842-4420 . 
sincerely william j. johnson , washington , dc , april 4 , 2005 . 
dear representative forbes : , i am writing on behalf of the members of the fraternal order of police to advise you of our strong support for h.r. 1279 , the `` gang deterrence and community protection act of 2005. '' this legislation will attack the growing problem of criminal gang activity by providing increased federal funding , almost $ 390 million , to support federal , state and local law enforcement efforts to combat gang activity . 
the bill aims to facilitate greater cooperation between law enforcement officers and prosecutors at every level of government by providing for the designation of certain locations as `` high intensity interstate gang activity areas. '' this strategy , modeled after the high intensity drug trafficking area ( hidta ) program , will enable law enforcement in these designated areas to build successful multijurisdictional efforts targeting criminal street gangs using federal funds . 
law enforcement agencies in these designated areas will be able to call on federal resources to hire additional state and local prosecutors and purchase technology to increase their abliity to identify and prosecute violent offenders . 
the legislation also creates new criminal gang prosecution offenses and enhances existing gang and violent crime penalties to deter and punish illegal gang activity . 
the bill would also allow 16-year olds to be charged as adults in federal court for crimes of violence . 
we believe that our nation 's law enforcement officers can be more effective at fighting the menace of criminal gangs if they have the necessary resources that this legislation provides . 
i want to commend you for your leadership on this issue . 
if i can be of any further help on this or any other issue , please do not hesitate to contact me or executive director jim pasco through my washington office . 
sincerely , chuck canterbury , april 18 , 2005 dear representative sensenbrenner : as the house judiciary committee continues its work on gang violence in america , on behalf of the national latino peace officers association ( nlpoa ) , we support all of the provisions contained in h.r. 1279 and urge the committee to adopt all of the provisions to strengthen federal law enforcement 's capabilities on combating the growing gang violence in america : 18 u.s.c . 
521 criminal street gang prosecutions , increasing the penalty for such criminal acts on behalf of a criminal gang ; defining gang crime for federal prosecution ; increased penalties for racketeering crimes on behalf of the criminal gangs ; modification of the definition of a crime of violence ; and increasing resources and appropriations in the newly defined high intensity interstate gang activity areas . 
nlpoa members have dealt with gang crimes and gang violence for the last 32 years and are experts in this arena ; with respect to gang investigations , deterrence , and prevention . 
the nlpoa recognizes that many gangs are more sophisticated and have more resources than local police departments . 
designating federal resources through increase penalties and federal task forces will help keep america safe ! 
sincerely , felipe a. ortiz , 