mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i urge my colleagues to support the amendment . 
i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on rules for allowing me to bring this important issue to the floor today . 
this amendment would require the attorney general to seek input from local elected officials before designating an area as a high-intensity interstate gang activity area . 
the bill currently only requires the attorney general to consult governors of the states . 
california is three states in one ; and for a person like me who lives in south los angeles , right in the middle of a gang area , i would have a lot to tell about designating that gang area . 
the underlying bill gives local communities no input . 
my amendment would simply require the attorney general to seek input from local elected officials before designating an area as being a high-intensity gang area . 
this amendment is not intended to slow down the process of designation or give local officials veto power that supersedes the power of federal and state officials . 
rather , it lets the communities and the people that represent them have a voice in the decision-making . 
addressing the gang problem in our communities is an issue that requires all levels of government working together . 
who knows better the problems facing these communities ' constituents than the communities themselves ? 
reducing gang violence requires hands-on intervention and input from those most affected by gang violence . 
these communities know , first-hand , the damage gang violence does in their neighborhoods everyday . 
their opinions should be heard on the state and federal levels . 
the communities affected by gang violence must have the chance to express their views before neighborhoods are classified as a high intensity gang area . 
local officials know better than anyone else what is occurring on a day to day basis in their jurisdictions . 
this amendment would allow participation on all levels of government in this designation process . 
mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to support this amendment and allow local elected officials , in conjunction with federal and state officials , to have input on how their communities are branded as high intensity gang areas . 
