mr. speaker , house resolution 304 is a rule providing for 2 hours of general debate on h. j. res. 27 , withdrawing the approval of the united states from the agreement establishing the world trade organization , to be equally divided among and controlled by the chairman and ranking member of the committee on ways and means , the gentleman from texas ( mr. paul ) xz4003110 , and the gentleman from vermont ( mr. sanders ) xz4003570 . 
the rule provides that during consideration of h. j. res. 27 pursuant to this resolution , notwithstanding the operation of the previous question , the chair may postpone further consideration of the bill to a time designated by the speaker . 
mr. speaker , i rise today in support of this fair rule , but in opposition to the underlying h. j. res. 27 , withdrawing the approval of the united states from the agreement establishing the world trade organization . 
in 1994 , congress passed the uruguay round table agreements act establishing the world trade organization , an independent body charged with monitoring and determining compliance with trade agreements . 
that law authorized the president to accept the united states ' membership in the wto and requires a report to be submitted to congress every 5 years on the united states ' participation in the wto . 
the law also offers congress the opportunity every 5 years to assess whether continued membership in this organization is in the best interest of the united states . 
i believe that members of the house should be afforded this opportunity to register their views on this question through a vote of the house , which i urge my colleagues to vote on in support of this rule . 
the united states already has low tariffs , few subsidies , and a history of abiding bylaws and agreements . 
our farmers and producers in my area in central washington and across the country are some of the most efficient in the world and are capable of competing and winning in world markets , so long as they do not face foreign government policies like subsidies and dumping practices that stack the deck against them . 
the enforcement of a rules-based trading system through the world trade organization is our best opportunity to gain access to these markets for our nation 's farmers and rural communities . 
the removal of artificial barriers to trade is of critical importance to apple growers and tree fruit farmers in the agricultural-based economy in central washington that i represent . 
i am pleased that in 2003 , the world trade organization stood up for the apple growers in central washington and across the nation by leveling the playing field in a dispute over japan 's import restrictions on imported u.s. apples . 
for nearly a decade , u.s. apple growers dealt with japan 's unjustified import requirements , which are imposed with no scientifically sound evidence . 
trade restrictions should be based on scientific evidence and should be implemented on a limited basis , not used merely as tools to create unfair trade barriers . 
the world trade organization ruled that japan 's restrictions were not justified and were in breach of their world trade organization obligations . 
this united states victory brought the hopes of meaningful access to japan 's markets to the domestic apple industry and will help us fight similar trade barriers in markets throughout the world . 
withdrawing from the world trade organization would result in our farmers , growers , and producers being shut out of these export opportunities and the loss of millions of jobs depending on them . 
therefore , i believe that we must support our nation 's continued membership in the wto and must continue aggressive enforcement of the rules of international trade . 
our nation 's economy can continue to grow if we have access to global markets on a level playing field . 
so , mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to support the rule and to oppose the underlying bill . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
