mr. speaker , although i disagree with much of what the wto does , i do not think it is in the best interest of our nation to withdraw from that organization at this time . 
doing so would give the united states little bargaining power as we work to promote a global economy that is both free and fair . 
withdrawal would put in jeopardy negotiations that are necessary to meet that goal . 
however , my support for the long-term goal of more equitable international trade does not translate into blanket support , but it is difficult to ignore the fact that the u.s. is increasingly the target of wto action . 
we are sued more than any other country , and our laws seem to be condemned by the wto every month . 
we have been the defendant in 19 of the last 36 cases decided by the appellate body . 
these negative decisions have threatened american products and american businesses with sanctions . 
for example , in recent years the wto has disapproved everything from our tax policies and trade laws to our sovereign right to regulate activity such as internet gambling and set tariffs against unfair pricing by foreign countries . 
it is becoming all too clear that these decisions are not the result of any shortcomings by this country or any true violation of international rules ; rather , one must wonder if we are facing a forum that sees our country 's prosperity and economic success as an opportunity to further bolster their own industries and markets . 
it seems as though nations are using the wto to gain through litigation that they could not secure through negotiation . 
but to help our economy , we can not turn toward a simplistic , bellicose jingoism approach that blames the wto and seeks protectionism as the answer to all . 
what we need to do on our own is to pass our energy policy that is otherwise costing us millions of jobs and to pass our own health care reforms to cut costs and not cut care . 
free trade is in everyone 's best interest , and the wto negotiations are vital to securing new markets for american products and creating new jobs for american workers . 
the negotiations must ultimately bring us to a system that is fair for all member countries while respecting the fundamental rights of a nation to determine its own law . 
this administration needs to pay very close attention to the issue as we can not sit idly by while the world unfairly threatens u.s. laws and remedies designed to protect our nation against unfair practices . 
the wto clearly is not operating always in the best interests of the united states of america . 
however , it is the forum that exists ; and as such , we need to remain partners with those that are vigilant and vigorous defenders of both free and fair trade in that forum for the benefit of our nation . 
