mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
mr. speaker , i strongly oppose the pull-out of the u.s. of the wto . 
this is a global economy that we live in . 
we have got to be at the table to work with the companies and work with the countries that are taking our jobs , and i believe the pull-out is the wrong thing to do . 
should it be strengthened ? 
yes , it should and the administration should reject all principles that would make our trade laws weaker . 
if we talk about intellectual property rights , we need to enforce those that are in there . 
and the bush administration and our u.s. administration , regardless of who sits in that white house , must make sure that those property rights are enforced internationally , and that is what the wto should be about . 
in 1995 when the wto was established , i thought then and i do hope now that dispute resolution procedures would be those where we could come to the table to resolve some of those disputes . 
the dispute process has become too cumbersome , too lengthy ; and many times we find our companies , u.s. companies , not taking advantage and being very much put out of business . 
the steel industries in my district , too much dumping from some other countries into america . 
we ought to rectify that so that u.s. companies can take u.s. companies and that we be able to employ our citizens . 
too many dislocated workers , the only way to address this is to stay in the wto to work with the other countries . 
and our administration must see that our rules , our trade laws , our employees ' rights are saved . 
we want to upgrade and lift up other countries , but we must save america . 
america is in crisis . 
our workers , too many have lost their jobs and many more to come . 
i represent general motors , and this week they announced the closing of more plants , dislocating more workers and at the same time put $ 2 billion in china last year . 
so i say stay in the wto ; make it better . 
this is a world economy , and the u.s. is the most powerful . 
i would hope that as we move forward in this discussion , and i know the vote will be overwhelming that we stay , that we build it and that we make sure that the countries that are taking our jobs have a responsibility to the workers of this country . 
however members intend to vote on the resolution before us , the issue of trade remedies under the rules established by the world trade organization ( wto ) is of paramount concern to the industries of my district in the years ahead . 
how we address this issue will be an important factor in determining whether we can retain support for open markets and the international trading system as we know it . 
countries like china , japan , and india that have most consistently dumped in this market and violated international rules are pushed hard to have those disciplines eviscerated . 
that would be a disaster for u.s. manufacturers , agricultural producers and workers . 
anti-dumping and anti-subsidy laws have already been critically weakened as a result of groundless wto dispute resolution decisions . 
if we see yet another new trade agreement that limits the use of these laws , i am afraid they will become completely ineffective . 
our trading partners , in the name of free trade , have been effective in putting forward a number of specific proposals that are designed to weaken u.s. trade laws . 
congress is on record as opposing these efforts and i welcome this opportunity to advocate that our top priority should be to preserve core trade disciplines . 
however , our trade negotiators have not offered meaningful proposals to challenge those who would weaken our trade remedy laws . 
this is a recipe for failure . 
if the administration comes back with an agreement that waters down our trade remedy laws even further , i am confident we will see a strong backlash in congress -- and a major effect on support for any new trade agreements . 
support for the wto can not be taken for granted in congress or in this country if we can not maintain the assurance that unfair trade can and will be remedied . 
i urge the administration to focus on this issue and to reject any wto deal that would weaken u.s. trade remedy laws . 
otherwise , we may well see the next wto vote have a very different outcome than is likely today . 
