mr. speaker , i could hardly believe my ears to hear one of my colleagues say that america does not need protection from the wto . 
we have lost almost 3 million manufacturing jobs . 
tell that to those millions of families who have seen their lives destroyed by this trade structure which is based , inherently based , on inequality . 
we have a $ 617 billion trade deficit . 
america does not need protection ? 
we have workers who are struggling to save their homes ; but these trade agreements are causing jobs to be moved out and people do not have the opportunity to save their homes . 
i have been all over this country , and i have seen padlocks on gates and grass growing in parking lots where they used to make steel , where they used to make cars , where they used to washing machines , where they used to make bicycles . 
america does not need protection ? 
yes , it is time for us to get out of the wto because the wto has set the stage for a driving down of the quality of life in this country . 
everyone in this house knows that we can not write into our laws that workers ' rights must be regarded , let us say , in china . 
i want someone here to contradict that because if we put that china must have the right to organize in any of their conduct of commerce in their country , that would be ruled wto illegal and the united states would be subject to a fine or sanctions by the wto just for standing up for workers ' rights . 
there is a moral imperative here , and that imperative is as old as this country . 
but it is also consistent with basic christian morality , and may i quote from a papal encyclical , leo xiii , 1891 in rerum novarum said , `` let the working man and the employer make free agreement and in particular let them agree freely as to wages . 
nevertheless , there underlies a dictate of natural justice more imperious and ancient than any bargain between man and man , namely , that wages ought not be insufficient to support a frugal and well-behaved wage earner if through necessity or fear of a worse evil the workman accept harder conditions because an employer or contractor will afford him no better . 
he is made a victim of force and injustice. '' i maintain that the wto helps to keep in place a structure of force and injustice against workers because we in this country can not pass laws that would lift the yoke of this force and injustice off workers anywhere in the world because the wto does not permit , does not permit any type of workers ' rights to be included or to be regarded . 
they are wto illegal . 
we can not pass workers ' rights and put them in our trade agreements . 
another papal encyclical from pope paul vi , populorum progressio : `` but it is unfortunate that on these new conditions of society , a system has been constructed which considers profit as the key motive for economic progress , competition as the supreme law of economics , and private ownership with the means of production as an absolute right that has no limits and carries no corresponding social obligation. '' he goes on to say that `` this leads to a dictatorship rightly denounced by pious xi by producing the international imperialism of money. '' there is a moral imperative here that we have to recognize that we need trade agreements that have workers ' rights , human rights , and environmental quality principles ; and we can not have that with the wto . 
it is time to get out of the wto and set up a trade structure based on those principles . 
