mr. speaker , i rise today to urge my colleagues to reject any attempts to withdraw the united states from the wto and vote no on final passage . 
when instituted correctly and fairly , trade agreements open up foreign markets to u.s. goods , create new opportunities for companies and their employees , and lift the standard of living for people in the country with whom we are trading . 
economists estimate that cutting trade barriers in agriculture , manufacturing and services by one-third would boost the world economy by $ 613 billion , equivalent to adding an economy the size of canada to the world economy . 
the wto is needed to monitor this process and ensure a level playing field . 
however , in certain cases , there is not a level playing field . 
a great example of this is airbus . 
airbus is currently the world 's leading manufacturer of civil aircraft , with about 50 percent of global market share . 
airbus received approximately $ 30 billion in market-distorting subsidies from the european governments , including launch aid , infrastructure support , debt forgiveness , equity infusions , and research and development funding . 
these subsidies , in particular launch aid , have lowered airbus ' development costs and shifted the risk of aircraft development to european governments , and thereby enabled airbus to develop aircraft at an accelerated pace and sell these aircraft at prices and on terms that would otherwise be unsustainable . 
these unfair actions put boeing at a major disadvantage and leads to a negative impact to workers and businesses in this country . 
by most conservative estimates , the unfair subsidies that airbus receives have led the united states to losing at least 60 , 000 high-paying jobs . 
as a member of the house committee on international relations and the fact that john f. kennedy international airport is the economic engine of my district , it is imperative that this body support ustr ambassador robert portman 's efforts to have a wto dispute resolution panel put an end to the unfair subsidies to airbus . 
