mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to h.r. 2745 . 
there is a need for reform at the united nations . 
no one disagrees with that , but the legislation before the house is an extreme and deeply flawed bill that would actually set back our efforts to strengthen and improve this important institution . 
the problem with the amendment is its complete lack of flexibility . 
it requires the united states to withhold 50 percent of our dues if 32 of 39 specific goals are not met by 2007 . 
furthermore , 14 of those goals are mandatory , and if a single one is not met , our dues are withheld . 
such a rigid approach weakens the bush administration 's hand in negotiating the changes that we all agree are necessary there . 
i want to quote from a june 14 letter to speaker hastert and leader pelosi from eight former u.s. ambassadors to the united nations . 
these ambassadors served in republican and democratic administrations alike , range broadly in their political persuasions , and include president bush 's most recent ambassador to the u.n. , john danforth , as well as madeleine albright , richard holbrooke , jeane kirkpatrick , donald mchenry , thomas pickering , bill richardson and andrew young . 
in their letter , they write that `` withholding u.s. dues to the u.n . 
threatens to undermine our leadership and effectiveness at the u.n . 
and the reform effort itself -- as well as the u.n. 's ability to take on responsibilities critical to protecting our national security ... ... . 
reforming the united nations is the right goal . 
withholding our dues to the u.n . 
is the wrong methodology. '' these distinguished former ambassadors go on to assert that , `` withholding u.s. dues to the united nations may sound like smart policy but would be counterproductive at this time ... ... . 
it would create resentment , build animosity and actually strengthen opponents of reform. '' for these reasons , i will vote for the substitute offered by ranking member lantos . 
the lantos substitute would give secretary of state rice the tools and flexibility needed to bring about reform at the united nations . 
let me conclude by saying that the bill before the house is a perfect example of how the priorities of the majority are out of step with the needs of the country . 
it is simply amazing that the house is debating this bill -- a bill that the president would almost certainly veto if it ever reached him -- when there are so many more important and unmet needs that the house has yet to address and could effectively address . 
millions of manufacturing jobs have left the united states over the last four years , and more jobs are leaving every day . 
the cost of gasoline remains near record highs , yet we still have no strategy to deal with it . 
over 40 million americans have no health insurance , and the cost of health insurance for all americans continues to rise . 
these are the issues that the american people need us to address . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose this flawed and unbalanced bill . 
