mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i rise today in support of this amendment to increase the ability of the united states to protect our world from the spread of nuclear weapons to dangerous governments . 
this amendment does two things : first , it calls for the u.s. permanent representative to the international atomic energy agency to do all it can to ensure that iran be cut off from any nuclear material technology and assistance . 
secondly , the amendment provides for penalties for any country that continues to provide assistance to iran 's nuclear efforts . 
mr. chairman , for over 35 years iran has been a non-nuclear party to the nuclear nonproliferation treaty . 
as such , it is bound by the treaty to open up all of its nuclear program efforts for international inspection . 
despite this obligation , iran has continued to pursue the development of nuclear capability in the dark without transparency . 
two years ago , an iranian opposition group revealed the location of hidden facilities used for the development of a nuclear program , locations which have since been verified by the iaea . 
as the gentlewoman from florida ( chairman ros-lehtinen ) pointed out just yesterday , iran acknowledged working with plutonium , a possible nuclear arms component , for years longer than it admitted to the iaea . 
we also found out it had received sensitive technology that can be used as parts of weapons programs earlier than it originally said it did . 
iran claims these efforts are for a peaceful purpose . 
but how can one really believe that iran needs a civilian nuclear program when it sits on the world 's second largest proven reserves of natural gas , not to mention its petroleum deposits ? 
clearly , mr. chairman , i posit iran can not be trusted . 
as iran has repeatedly lied to the world regarding the extent and sophistication of its nuclear program , tehran serves as the world 's capital for the export and sponsorship of terrorism . 
it has demonstrated a willingness to provoke its neighbors , as well as the united states and israel . 
past efforts to stop iran 's pursuit of nuclear weapons have obviously failed . 
mr. chairman , this amendment makes a clear and unequivocal declaration to iran , as well as to the nations of the world , that the united states is serious about stopping iran 's development of nuclear weapons . 
i urge the passage of this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
