mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i would like to thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde ) xz4001920 and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos ) xz4002310 for their work on this issue , and my good friend , the gentleman from virginia ( mr. cantor ) xz4000600 , for cosponsoring this amendment with me . 
this amendment would take a strong stand against iranian nuclear proliferation and would help to ensure that iran ceases its weapons program . 
the amendment directs the permanent representative to the iaea to use his influence to ensure that iran does not receive any nuclear material or technological assistance from other iaea member states . 
this restriction will remain in place until iran allows full access to its nuclear-related facilities by iaea inspectors , has fully implemented iaea 's additional protocol , and has completely ended all nuclear enrichment programs . 
tehran has relentlessly pursued a large-scale , covert nuclear weapons program for almost 2 decades . 
this program represents the great proliferation challenge to the united states . 
iran is the most active state sponsor of terrorism . 
it has provided hezbollah , hamas , islamic jihad , and the popular front for the liberation of palestine with funding , training , and weapons to continue their terrorist attacks throughout the world . 
unless the world community intervenes , iran will become the first active state sponsor of terrorism to acquire the greatest instrument of terror and destruction , nuclear weapons . 
a nuclear-armed iran will terrorize and destabilize the entire middle east and pose a serious threat to europe , asia , africa , as well as the united states . 
iran has already tested the shahab-3 missile , with a range of over 1 , 250 miles . 
this not only puts israel , the only democracy in the middle east , in danger , but can be used to attack u.s. bases in the region . 
there is strong evidence that iran would be willing to sell nuclear material to the highest bidder . 
worse yet , iran might be willing to simply give the nuclear material away . 
faced with the reality of a radical iran with nuclear weapons , other countries in the region might feel compelled to develop their own nuclear capability to maintain an awful balance of power . 
iran continues to deceive the international community and hide its actions from international observers . 
iran did not acknowledge the existence of the natanz fuel enrichment plant until after its existence was discovered . 
this facility can manufacture enough uranium to produce 25 to 30 nuclear weapons per year . 
in 2003 , iran admitted that it had a laser uranium enrichment program not previously disclosed . 
we know of two facilities that manufacture and refine nuclear materials , including an enrichment facility designed for 1 , 000 centrifuges , and a large buried facility intended to house up to 50 , 000 centrifuges . 
today , a report was delivered to the iaea 's board of governors by the deputy director general of the un . 
in it iran admits to experimenting with and producing plutonium . 
recently , moscow entered into an agreement to provide nuclear fuel for iran 's controversial bushehr reactor . 
under the agreement , russia would control the fissile material . 
but there is nothing to prevent iran from withdrawing from the agreement . 
if iran did that , the bushehr reactor could produce enough plutonium annually for 30 nuclear weapons . 
the ayatollahs of terror must not be allowed to acquire nuclear weapons under any circumstances . 
a nuclear iran threatens the entire planet . 
i urge adoption of this amendment . 
