mr. chairman , the u.n . 
soon to celerate its 60th anniversary , is chartered to promote universal human rights , justice and social progress . 
these are perfect ideals that the global community must strive to put into action , but that does not mean the u.n . 
is a perfect organization . 
recent scandals and the lack of transparency within the u.n . 
undermine the essential role the u.n . 
plays in world affairs . 
reform is an urgent priority but the cure for fixing these problems should not be worse than the disease . 
h.r. 2745 will hamstring the u.s. 's ability to create positive reform within the u.n. , tarnish the image of the u.s. abroad when public opinion of the u.s. , particularly in the arab countries where is at an all time low , and defeat the administration 's public diplomacy efforts before karen hughes even assumes her new responsibilities in september . 
additionally , h.r. 2745 would halt funding for any new or expanded peacekeeping missions . 
unilaterally preventing the u.s. from supporting new peacekeeping missions puts an untold number of lives at risk and additionally , could endanger u.s. national security interests . 
in fact many of the peacekeeping reforms contained in the hyde bill are endorsed by the u.n . 
department of peacekeeping operations , and in most cases are already underway , to address recent concerns raised about sexual exploitation and abuse in peacekeeping missions . 
moreover , h.r. 2745 does not enjoy the full support of the administration . 
according to r. nicholas bums , under secretary of state for political affairs , `` we have serious concerns with the bill . 
we are the founder of the u.n . 
we 're the host country of the u.n . 
we 're the leading contributor to the u.n . 
we do n't want to put ourselves in a position where the united states is withholding 50 percent of the american contributions to the u.n . 
system. '' congress must provide the state department with the tools and flexibility to push for positive changes within the u.n . 
the lantos/shays substitute would provide the authority , but not mandate , the secretary of state to withhold dues from the u.n . 
if reform measures are n't implemented in a timely manner . 
the united states , as the world leader , must take an active , positive role in helping reform the u.n . 
the lantos/shays substitute is the step in the right direction for u.s. reform efforts and i will vote in favor of this substitute and against the u.n . 
reform act . 
