mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
the kucinich amendment would add another requirement for u.n . 
reform , that the international labor organization must be strengthened and expanded ; specifically , the social protection sector . 
it is not the intention of this amendment to limit the u.s. contribution to the u.n . 
the intention of my amendment is to make it the policy of the united states at the u.n . 
to place the highest priority on the improvement of international labor rights . 
therefore , it is necessary that this amendment has the same certification requirement for the strengthening of the international labor organization as the other reform criteria have . 
labor rights , which are the same as human rights , should not be treated with any less importance . 
the ilo does an important job , and they do it well . 
my amendment would urge the u.s. representative to the u.n . 
to use the voice , vote and influence of the united states to encourage the international labor organization to do even more . 
i believe the most important work of the ilo is in the social protection sector , which is responsible for coming up with the tools , instruments and policies to ensure that men and women have working conditions that are as safe as possible , that respect human dignity , take into account family and social values , allow for adequate compensation in the case of lost or reduced income , permit access to adequate social and medical services , and respect the right to free time and rest . 
in a global economic context of sweatshops , child labor , exploitative labor practices and unfettered capitalism , the work of the ilo social protection sector is vastly important . 
the social protection sector sends on-site inspectors to investigate labor conditions around the globe . 
the hard evidence gathered by these inspectors is published in highly regarded in-depth reports for consumption by policymakers , decisionmakers , journalists and various labor and human rights groups throughout the international community . 
these reports have served as a basis for labor rights campaigns . 
they have served as a basis for government reforms . 
they have served as a basis for campaigns against unfair trade agreements with exploitative labor provisions . 
the following are examples of recent reports in paper published by the ilo : global report 2005 , a global alliance against slave labor ; an economic study of the costs and benefits of eliminating child labor ; a report by the director general , a fair globalization , the role of the ilo ; towards a fair deal for migrant workers in a global economy ; eleventh synthesis report on the working condition situation in cambodia 's garment sector . 
the ilo is responsible for gathering evidence for and disseminating the following facts : that there are 48 , 000 children working in floriculture in cayambe and cotopaxi in ecuador . 
conditions in cotopaxi are worse than in cayambe . 
in cotopaxi all employees are involved in all stages of production , including fumigation , and younger children fumigate most frequently . 
in medical exams of 105 children between the ages of 9 and 18 , 27 percent had experienced migraines , 50 percent blackouts ; 32 percent experienced shaking . 
it is estimated that in brazil as many as 25 , 000 persons are subjected to slave labor conditions , mostly in the amazonian states of para and mato grosso . 
in a number of countries freer trade has replaced or undercut domestic industrial and agricultural industries displacing workers , while structural adjustment programs have restricted government spending to cushion unemployment . 
job creation in some countries under structure adjustment programs has lagged behind the increased number of unemployed , and the net result of these job losses due to trade and structural change has been a large number of people without opportunities for decent work in their homelands . 
it was estimated at the end of 1998 that some 1 billion workers , or one-third of the world 's labor force , were either unemployed or underemployed . 
it is essential that we know about preexisting labor and living conditions in different regions around the world as steps are taken towards a globalized economy . 
it is essential that the world learn about the negative consequences that accompany this economic model . 
the ilo is the foremost international institution responsible for gathering information and making recommendations amid this context . 
the only thing wrong with the ilo is that while its recommendations and conventions are important , they are not enforceable . 
nevertheless , the ilo 's work is significant , influential and does make a difference . 
mr. chairman , we should be encouraging and expanding the important work of the ilo so that we will make better informed decisions and develop more sound policies to eradicate the worst labor abuses around the world . 
with the expansion of the social protection sector , more field and regional units would be established , which would allow more on-site inspections to occur and more reports to be published . 
a strengthened ilo would have a civilizing effect on corporate behavior . 
