mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , today we will be considering h.r. 2601 , the foreign relations authorization act for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 or as it is commonly referred to , the state department authorization bill . 
the bill includes several requests from the administration which are oriented toward improving the operations of the department or the quality of life for those serving in our embassies in missions abroad . 
this bill authorizes funding for the state department international organizations , international commissions , refugee programs and various related authorizations . 
this measure also authorizes a variety of foreign assistance programs and speaks to many current international issues to include a review of our strategic export controls . 
given the unparalleled threat to the united states and to the world from the continued proliferation of nuclear weapons , strengthening our nuclear nonproliferation efforts is an important piece of this legislation . 
the bill states that u.s. national interests would be advanced by a stronger international atomic energy agency including and ensuring that the delay in the u.s. annual payment is corrected , along with various other recommendations . 
h.r. 2601 authorizes $ 10.8 billion for fiscal year 2006 and is essentially within the president 's fiscal year 2006 budget request for state department and foreign aid accounts . 
public diplomacy activities are fully supported in this bill . 
while we support the traditional methods of reaching foreign audiences , we strongly urge state to be creative in finding the most effective program mix for any given country . 
in closing , this bill reflects contributions of the administration as well as the republican and democratic members of the committee on international relations . 
we bring a solid bill to the house floor . 
i urge its adoption . 
mr. chairman , i have enclosed a series of letters concerning committee jurisdiction on the bill , h.r. 2601 , `` to authorize appropriations for the department of state for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 , and for other purposes. '' committee on international relations , house of representatives , washington , dc , july 13 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
chairman : i am writing to you concerning h.r. 2601 , a bill to authorize appropriations for the department of state for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 , and for other purposes . 
the committee on international relations has marked up the bill and ordered it reported by a unanimous vote . 
there are certain provisions within the version of the legislation ordered reported by the committee which fall within the shared rule x jurisdiction of your committee . 
specifically , i refer to the language concerning the amendments to section 140 of the foreign relations authorization act , fiscal years 1988 and 1989 ( 22 u.s.c . 
2656f ) , relating to comparability standards for the annual patterns of global terrorism report required under section 22 u.s.c . 
2656 ( a ) . 
in the interest of permitting this committee to proceed expeditiously to the floor consideration of this bill , i request your committee waive its right to sequential referral on this matter . 
i understand that such a waiver only applies to this language in this bill , and not to the underlying subject matter . 
i will urge the speaker of the house of representatives to name members of your committee to any conference committee which is named to consider this bill . 
i appreciate your willingness to allow us to proceed . 
i will insert this exchange of letters into the congressional record during the debate on this bill . 
sincerely , henry j. hyde , house of representatives , permanent select committee on intelligence , washington , dc , july 17 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
chairman : in recognition of the importance of expediting the passage of h.r. 2061 , authorizing appropriations for the department of state for fiscal year 2006 and 2007 , the permanent select committee on intelligence hereby waives further consideration of the bill . 
the committee has jurisdictional interests in h.r. 2061 , including intelligence and intelligence-related authorizations and provisions contained in the bill , in particular amendments relating to section 140 of the foreign relations authorization act for fiscal years 1988 and 1989 . 
the committee takes this action only with the understanding that this procedural route should not be construed to prejudice the house permanent select committee on intelligence 's jurisdictional interest over this bill or any similar bill and will not be considered as precedent for consideration of matters of jurisdictional interest to the committee in the future . 
in addition , the permanent select committee on intelligence will seek conferees on any provisions of the bill that are within its jurisdiction during any house-senate conference that may be convened on this legislation . 
finally , i would ask that you include a copy of our exchange of letters on this matter in the congressional record during the house debate on h.r. 2061 . 
i appreciate the constructive work between our committees on this matter and thank you for your consideration . 
sincerely , peter hoekstra , committee on international relations , house of representatives , washington , dc , july 14 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
chairman : i am writing to you concerning h.r. 2601 , the `` foreign relations authorization act , fiscal years 2006 and 2007. '' the committee ordered this bill reported favorably as amended on june 9 , 2005 . 
as reported , this measure contains provisions that are within the rule x jurisdiction of the committee on armed services . 
these provisions include : sections 701-703 of title vii . 
strategic export control and security assistance act of 2005 ; section 712 . 
strategic export control board ; section 727 . 
commercial communications satellite technical data ; section 734 . 
control of items on missile technology control regime annex ; section 906 . 
report on foreign law enforcement training and assistance ; section 944 . 
assistance for demobilization and disarmament of former irregular combatants in colombia ; and section 1125 . 
stability and security in iraq . 
in the interest of permitting this committee to proceed expeditiously to floor consideration of this bill , i request that the committee on armed services waive its right to sequential referral on this matter . 
i understand that such a waiver only applies to this language in this bill , and not to the underlying subject matter . 
i will urge the speaker to name members of the committee on armed services to any conference committee which is named to consider this bill . 
i appreciate your willingness to allow us to proceed . 
i will insert this exchange of letters into the congressional record during the debate on this bill . 
sincerely , henry j. hyde , committee on armed services , house of representatives , washington , dc , july 13 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
chairman : on june 9 , 2005 , the committee on international relations ordered reported h.r. 2601 , the `` foreign relations authorization act , fiscal years 2006 and 2007 '' . 
as you know , this measure contains provisions that are within the jurisdiction of the committee on armed services . 
these provisions include : sections 701-703 of title vii -- strategic export control and security assistance act of 2005 ; section 712 . 
strategic export control board ; section 727 . 
commercial communications satellite technical data ; section 734 . 
control of items on missile technology control regime annex ; section 906 . 
report on foreign law enforcement training and assistance ; section 944 . 
assistance for demobilization and disarmament of former irregular combatants in colombia ; and section 1125 . 
stability and security in iraq . 
knowing of your interest in expediting this legislation , i will waive consideration of h.r. 2601 by the committee on armed services . 
i do so with the understanding that by waiving consideration of the bill , the committee on armed services does not waive any future jurisdictional claim over these or similar measures . 
in addition , in the event of a conference with the senate on this matter , the committee on armed services reserves the right to seek the appointment of conferees . 
please include this letter in your committee 's report on h.r. 2601 or introduce it into the congressional record during consideration of the measure on the house floor . 
thank you for the cooperative spirit in which you have worked regarding this matter and others between our respective committees . 
with best wishes , sincerely , duncan hunter , committee on international relations , house of representatives , washington , dc , july 13 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
chairman : thank you for your recent letter expressing the jurisdictional interest of the committee on homeland security in sections 712 , 732 , and 1002 of h.r. 2601 , the `` foreign relations authorization act for fiscal years 2006 and 2007. '' i appreciate your willingness to not seek a sequential referral in order to expedite proceedings on this legislation . 
i agree that , by not exercising your right to request a referral , the committee on homeland security does not waive any jurisdiction it has over provisions of the bill . 
in addition , i agree to support your request for conferees during the house-senate conference to consider provisions within your committee 's jurisdiction . 
as you have requested , i will include a copy of your letter and this response as part of the congressional record during consideration of the legislation on the house floor . 
thank you for your cooperation as we work towards the enactment of h.r. 2601 . 
sincerely , henry j. hyde , house of representatives , committee on homeland security , washington , dc , july 5 , 2005 . 
dear chairman hyde : i am writing to you concerning the jurisdictional interest of the committee on homeland security in h.r. 2601 , the `` foreign relations authorization act for fiscal years 2006 and 2007. '' the bill contains provisions that fall within the jurisdiction of the committee on homeland security , including : section 712 , which involves the participation of the secretary of the department of homeland security on a strategic export control board ; section 732 , involving a report certifying exempt weapons imports along the northern border ; and section 1002 , which provides for an interagency process for compilation of an annual report on patterns of global terrorism . 
recognizing your interest in bringing the legislation before the house without delay , the committee on homeland security agrees not to request a sequential referral of the bill . 
by agreeing not to seek a sequential referral , the committee does not waive its jurisdiction over these or any other provisions of the bill that may fall within its jurisdiction . 
the committee also reserves its right to seek conferees for any provisions within its jurisdiction considered in the house-senate conference , and asks for your support in being accorded such conferees . 
i ask that you please include this letter as part of the congressional record during consideration of this bill by the house . 
sincerely , christopher cox , committee on international relations , house of representatives , washington , dc , july 14 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
chairman : i am writing to you concerning the bill h.r. 2601 , `` to authorize appropriations for the department of state for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 , and for other purposes '' . 
the committee has marked up the bill and ordered it reported by a unanimous vote . 
there are certain provisions within the version of the legislation ordered reported by the committee which fall within the rule x jurisdiction of the committee on the judiciary . 
specifically title ii of the bill , section 201 deals with consolidation of law enforcement powers and creates a new title 18 criminal offense . 
in the interest of permitting this committee to proceed expeditiously to the floor consideration of this bill , i request that the committee on the judiciary waive its right to sequential referral on this matter . 
i understand that such a waiver only applies to this language in this bill , and not to the underlying subject matter . 
i will urge the speaker to name members of the committee on the judiciary to any conference committee which is named to consider this bill . 
i appreciate your willingness to allow us to proceed . 
i will insert this exchange of letters into the congressional record during the debate on this bill . 
sincerely , henry j. hyde , house of representatives , committee on the judiciary , washington , dc , july 14 , 2005 . 
dear mr . 
chairman : thank you for your letter concerning h.r. 2601 `` to authorize appropriations for the department of state for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 , and for other purposes. '' as you state , the language in title ii of the bill , section 201 dealing with consolidation of law enforcement powers and creating a new title 18 criminal offense falls within the sole rule x jurisdiction of the committee on the judiciary . 
since you have consulted with this committee , and in recognition of desire to proceed expeditiously to the floor , i hereby waive consideration of this legislation by the committee . 
the committee takes this action with the understanding that the committee 's jurisdiction over these and other provisions of h.r. 2601 is in no way altered or diminished . 
i also reserve the right to seek appointment to any house-senate conference on this legislation , and appreciate your willingness to support such a request . 
i would also appreciate your including this letter in your committee 's report on this legislation and in the congressional record during consideration of the legislation on the house floor . 
sincerely , f . 
james sensenbrenner , jr . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
