mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i will conclude by saying this : there are no democrats , there are no republicans when it comes to the issue of nuclear nonproliferation . 
the one thing that president bush and john kerry agreed upon in their presidential debates is that this is the most important issue in the world . 
it may have been the only thing that they agreed upon , but they did agree upon this one issue . 
now , interestingly , in the atomic energy act of the united states , in 1954 , it is , in fact , a requirement under our law that if another nation is in violation of the agreement , that the nuclear materials which we give to that country is not used for peaceful purposes , that all of the materials that we have sent to that country must be returned to our country . 
what this amendment says is that as a member of the united nations and the iaea , that we now will extend this not just to the united states , but to all countries in the world ; that the iaea must enforce a requirement that if a country is in violation of its agreement to use materials only for peaceful purposes , then the iaea must act immediately to begin the process of reclaiming all of the material that all of the countries of the world have sent to that country which is in violation of the law . 
we must put teeth in this law . 
we must not allow the short-term diplomatic or political agenda of any president or any secretary of state , democrat or republican , to interfere with the overarching goal of ensuring that nuclear weapons are not used anywhere on this planet at any time . 
and so i urge all members to support this amendment . 
it goes a long way in sending a message to the rest of the world that the united states intends on being the leader on the issue of nuclear nonproliferation , regardless of which other country in the world is involved and regardless of which other country in the world was the supplier of those materials . 
we will be the moral leader . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
