mr. chairman , it is time that we make real reforms at the united nations that address the real problems , but i believe that the hyde bill simply sets the united nations up to fail by creating a series of requirements that will be almost impossible to meet . 
one might even argue that this is the actual goal of some u.n . 
critics . 
the united nations is governed by 191 countries , including syria , iran , and north korea , who would have to approve the majority of these changes . 
this seems highly unlikely as structured by the bill . 
right now this bill is medicine which may kill the patient rather than cure a specific disease . 
the hyde bill ties the hands of the secretary of state with a mandatory 50 percent withholding , even if the u.n . 
improves significantly . 
that is like kicking a child out of school who has moved from an f to a b because they did not get an a. the bill also keeps the u.s. from supporting any new peacekeeping missions until far-reaching reforms have been implemented , even in cases like a sudan and when innocent civilians are at risk . 
we do not know when and where u.n . 
peacekeepers will be needed next , but we do know that we can not risk the lives of innocent people or risk american interests around the world . 
we simply can not create legislation which hurts our own security interests and our national interest while we are at war . 
this is a time , when our own human and financial resources are stretched thin , for the united states to get the world to act with us rather than destroy the institution which unites the world . 
i am concerned that the bill condemns us to lose only american lives , shed only american blood and spend only american capital instead of having the world share this responsibility with us . 
that is why i urge my colleagues to vote against the hyde bill and to vote for the lantos-shays substitute that does the reforms we want , but gives the secretary of state the flexibility to do the peacekeeping and to achieve the reforms we all want to see . 
