mr. chairman , i yield myself 2 minutes . 
mr. chairman , in the 35 years since the nuclear nonproliferation treaty has been in force , much has changed around the world , but what has not changed is the danger inherent in the spread of nuclear weapons . 
my amendment says that the president of the united states shall direct the united states permanent representative to the iaea to use their influence and their vote to secure an agreement within the iaea requiring that any member state of the npt that is in breach of the treaty or withdraws from the treaty must return any nuclear materials or technology acquired for peaceful purposes . 
now , why is this amendment needed ? 
well , for the first time in the treaty 's history , one country has withdrawn from the treaty . 
in 2002 , international inspectors were asked to leave north korea , and , in 2003 , north korea withdrew from the nonproliferation treaty . 
and just this year north korea announced to the world that it has nuclear weapons ; all the while , north korea is allowed to keep any and all nuclear materials , nuclear technology , and assistance they receive as a member of the npt . 
so while considerable diplomatic activity has taken place to try to convince north korea to reverse its action , there is actually no rule in place now at the iaea that would require north korea to return all of the nuclear materials it received . 
my amendment would mandate that the president direct the united states permanent representative at the iaea to secure such an agreement amongst the iaea member states . 
this type of requirement is not just important because of north korea . 
currently we have iran declaring its rights to pursue all nuclear technology for peaceful purposes , it says . 
the united states and europe are worried that iran has a clandestine nuclear weapons program , but all the while iran is insisting on its right to receive all nuclear materials , nuclear technology , and assistance for its peaceful program . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
