mr. chairman , i rise in support of the hooley-souder amendment to h.r. 2601 . 
i ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks . 
this amendment will authorize $ 4 million in 2006 and 2007 to help prevent the smuggling of methamphetamine from mexico to the united states . 
it authorizes the secretary of state to work with mexican government and law enforcement officials to improve their abilities to fight the production and trafficking of meth . 
the u.s. department of justice estimates that 90 percent of the meth available in my home state of nebraska is trafficked from mexico , california and the southwestern states . 
nationwide , 65 percent of available meth was smuggled into the u.s. by mexican drug cartels and gangs . 
during a routine traffic stop last january , the douglas county sheriff 's office in nebraska seized five pounds of meth from two mexican nationals who had concealed the drug inside a spare tire in the trunk . 
in march , an 8-month investigation culminated in the arrest of five mexican and hispanic drug cartel members . 
law enforcement officials seized 12.5 pounds of meth being transported to omaha from california . 
although 90 percent of the meth problem in nebraska stems from international and intrastate drug trafficking , local law enforcement officers must spend the majority of their resources fighting home-based meth labs . 
dismantling hundreds of `` mom and pop '' labs operated out of kitchen sinks and car trunks , and disposing of the highly toxic chemicals used to manufacture meth , is a timely and expensive process . 
the hooley-souder amendment is critical to support our police officers on the front lines in the battle against meth . 
reducing the amount of meth smuggled into the u.s. from mexican super-labs will help our law enforcement officers protect families and children from this insidious drug that destroys lives and ruins communities . 
i urge my colleagues to join me in voting for the hooley-souder amendment today . 
