mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
the united nations , at its inception , was one of the most noble undertakings in modern human history . 
its vision was of world governments working in concert to ameliorate , if not eradicate , world problems . 
this ideal , however , has over its more recent course become a body where some member nations appear more focused on institutional anti-americanism than addressing the growing maladies that face the world 's citizens . 
if the u.n . 
member nations insist upon open antagonism toward the united states at seemingly every turn , then the time has come to reexamine our role as their benefactor . 
it is counterintuitive to financially reward countries whose motivation is in opposition to american efforts . 
in order to correct this problem of incongruity , i propose a simple solution . 
my amendment would cause the united states to end all financial assistance to those countries who vote against us more than 50 percent of the time in the united nations . 
that also includes an end to training the soldiers of nations who oppose us . 
the ban on our funding antagonistic nations , however , would not begin until march of 2006 . 
march 31 of 2006 , the next report will come out that says how everyone voted on each position . 
this will give all such countries notice of the coming consequences of their action . 
the rationale is simple . 
they are sovereign nations , they can make their own decisions , but we do not have to pay them to hate us . 
throwing money at our enemies has made them more contemptuous , not less . 
i share the concerns of many americans about the u.n. , its bureaucracy and its approach to world problems . 
they run counter to u.s. values and interests . 
the u.n . 
is currently an inefficient bureaucratic organization badly in need of reform , and too often it has become a forum for radical anti-american rhetoric and policies that would violate many of our nation 's most cherished freedoms , laws , customs and recognized human rights . 
my amendment simply stops the flow of american tax dollars to countries that claim to be our allies and who are happily taking the hard-earned tax dollars from american pockets , then using the money to spew anti-american venom all over the world . 
my constituents in east texas have told me , i have heard it around the country time and time again , they are fed up with this anti-american rhetoric coming out of the u.n . 
that their money is paying for . 
surely we can find a better use of this money than to fund nations that oppose all we hold dear . 
on numerous occasions i have had citizens ask me why government is sending their money overseas to support governments and countries that are against the amendments and things for which we stand . 
some say we should be more loving and send these billions of dollars anyway . 
friends , your heart may be good , but you are not using your head . 
i have relatives and friends that i love with all my heart . 
i would give my life for them , but if they are doing things to demean and destroy the very things i am fighting to preserve , i would not send them money . 
accordingly , and in conclusion , we do not have to pay these countries to hate us . 
we do not have to fund our opposition . 
if a foreign nation wants to take the tax dollars of hard-working americans , well , then they better start helping us seek truth , justice and freedom 's ways at least 50 percent of the time . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
