mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
for their work on this bill , i would first of all like to thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde ) xz4001920 , the chairman , and the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos ) xz4002310 , two giants of this institution and people who i am pleased to call friends . 
mr. chairman , our government is being forced to give financial support to corporations we normally would exclude because of our membership in the united nations and where our dues are spent . 
when a federal agency takes an action to exclude a contractor under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system , the agency enters the information about the excluded party into the excluded parties list system , the epls , which is maintained by the general services administration . 
this means that we have a list of individuals and companies with whom our government is forbidden to do business or provide grants or similar assistance . 
the epls identifies those who are deemed corrupt or untrustworthy or even those involved in terrorist activities , like the islamic jihad and hezbollah . 
these contractors are excluded from entering contracts and agencies may not solicit offers from , award contracts to , or consent to subcontracts with these contractors . 
contractors are excluded from conducting business with the government as agents or representatives of other contractors . 
what is more , every u.s. citizens can view the epls on line . 
we know who we do not support and why we do not support them and what their punishment is . 
however , though our government has a list of parties we refuse to deal with , our dollars might be supporting them through the u.n . 
i am offering an amendment that will add a paragraph to section 108 of h.r. 2745 , the henry j. hyde united nations reform act of 2005 . 
this section requires a report to be filed with the congress of the united states on the status of the u.n. 's reform . 
my amendment requires a report on the contracts entered into by the u.n . 
or any of its specialized agencies with parties on the u.s. government 's epls . 
this amendment is endorsed by the heritage foundation , as well as americans for tax reform . 
u.n . 
officials have time and again demonstrated poor judgment and an inability to appropriately manage the money provided by many countries , including the united states . 
it is absolutely clear , mr. chairman , that something has to be done about the u.n . 
the release this week of the oil-for-food contractor cotecna , calling into question kofi annan 's claim that he was unaware of cotecna 's bid for a contract in 1998 , is just the latest in a long stream of ethical blunders . 
as a bipartisan report , featured in yesterday 's wall street journal stated , `` until and unless it changes dramatically , the united nations will remain an uncertain instrument , both for the governments that comprise it and for those that look to it for salvation. '' it is only logical that the same restrictions we place upon on our federal agencies be applied to the money we give to the u.n . 
this extra measure of oversight will help prevent future corruption by the u.n . 
and create clear guidelines regarding who the u.n . 
contracts with . 
