mr. chairman , i rise today in support of the motion to recommit offered by ranking member obey to increase funding for priority education , health care , human services and job training programs by $ 11.8 billion . 
in terms of education programs , the bill eliminates 24 education programs funded at $ 526 million in 2005 . 
the largest of the terminated programs is comprehensive school reform . 
the bill also eliminates drop out prevention activities , parent assistance centers , arts education , k-12 foreign language instruction , ready to learn , ready to teach , and community technology centers . 
in addition , the bill cuts no child left behind below the current level . 
specifically , h.r. 3010 cuts the program by $ 806 million ( 3.3 percent ) . 
next year , school districts must achieve increasingly rigorous nclb academic standards , administer annual reading and math tests to 3rd through 8th graders , and meet new standards for highly-qualified teachers . 
despite these facts , funding for the program will fall $ 13.2 billion below its fy06 authorization and cumulative shortfall since enactment of the program will exceed $ 40 billion under the bill . 
as it relates to health care issue , the bill continues to make cuts across the board which either eliminates important programs or at least cuts there funding in half . 
for example , the bill cuts rural health outreach grants from $ 39 million in fy05 to $ 11 million in fy06 . 
these grants support rural hospitals , clinics , health departments and other providers to help improve primary health cares services in rural areas ( including dental care , mental health treatment , and hospice care ) . 
h.r. 3010 also supports fewer healthy start grants . 
specifically , the bill produces a $ 5 million ( 5 percent ) cut in the healthy start initiative , which makes targeted grants to improve prenatal and infant care in areas with high infant mortality rates . 
this funding level will allow renewal or replacement of only about half the 12 healthy start grants up for re-competition in fy06 . 
i would also like to take a moment to express my concerns with some of the many funding cuts for title vii programs in this year 's appropriations bill . 
while i am pleased to see that funding was provided for minority centers of excellence ( $ 12 million ) and scholarships for disadvantage students ( $ 35 million ) , i am disappointed that area health education centers , health education and training centers , and health professions training programs were all zeroed out . 
these programs have been addressing the needs of medically underserved communities in texas since 1991 by playing a key role in providing health services and health care professionals for our most vulnerable populations . 
in regards to job training , h.r. 3010 makes cuts to training , employment and unemployment services . 
although the economy has not fully recovered from the last recession , and 7.6 million americans unemployed in may 2005 , the bill cuts $ 346 million ( 3.6 percent ) from critical services to unemployed , displaced and incumbent workers . 
in light of the above stated cuts , i strongly support the amendment by mr. obey . 
again , his amendment would increase funding for priority education , health care , human services and job training programs by $ 11.8 billion . 
these are very important programs and we must provide funding for them . 
i encourage my colleagues to support the chairman 's amendment . 
