mr. chairman , i yield myself the remaining time . 
to bring this towards a close , as i listen to this debate , i think it is clear to us that this is an inappropriate investment on the part of taxpayers ' dollars for us to compel the taxpayers to pay for sexual impotency drugs . 
i take issue with some of the statements made , for example , no evidence of abuse for medically appropriate situations exist . 
certainly it does . 
i recognize that the amendment of the gentleman from california ( mr. doolittle ) xz4001130 in the bill addresses some of the abuse , and that is the abuse of these prescriptions going into the hands of sexual predators , rapists , and child molesters . 
now , this amendment would not be necessary to do that , but there is other abuse that goes beyond that . 
there is record of abuse that existed . 
no one paid any attention , until i raised this issue last november and december , and the traction has not been there for a policy change . 
that is why i need to bring this amendment here in the only fashion that i can with the leverage i have in this congress . 
we will spend , over the next 10 years , over $ 2 billion , our cbo score runs it up over $ 2 billion , and $ 105 million in this next year . 
this is , as the gentleman from virginia said , the only opportunity that we have to stop this funding under medicare and also to stop the balance of this funding under medicaid before such time as it becomes a huge entitlement . 
there are only two reasons for sex , there has only been , and one of them is for procreation . 
we do not subsidize any kind of fertility drugs under any kind of medicare or medicaid , because we decided that that is inappropriate . 
so we do not either subsidize procreational sex . 
recreation is another thing . 
we do not subsidize the recreation of others either . 
so under either one of those categories , this is wrong . 
i urge the adoption of this amendment against federal funding for viagra , cialis , and levitra . 
