mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this amendment , and i would point out to my colleagues , we had the identical amendment last year and it failed by a vote of 315 to 95 . 
so , many of my colleagues have already voted against this amendment . 
let me point out , there is no universal mental health screening funded in the underlying bill . 
this is an inflammatory amendment . 
it is not necessary . 
during our hearings , secretary leavitt from health and human services told the committee that the administration does not support and has no plans to implement universal mental health screening , and then they made it very clear that in all programming involving kids there is a requirement that parents participate and give their informed consent , and that would be in a different program . 
we have never proposed in appropriations any program of universal mental screening , and all it does really , this amendment , is to stigmatize the issue of mental health . 
the sponsor mentions $ 26 million , and let me point out that the funds provided in this bill that respond to recommendations put forward in the final report of the president 's new freedom commission on mental health , `` achieving the promise : transforming mental health care in america , '' go toward state incentive grants for transformation to support the development of comprehensive state mental health plans , and has absolutely no funding included for universal mental health screening . 
so the $ 26 million has nothing to do with this amendment as far as universal mental health screening . 
as a matter of fact , the president 's commission did not recommend either universal or mandatory mental health screening . 
so i think it is clear that the president 's commission did not feel this was in any way necessary , and for this reason i oppose the amendment . 
i think that is why the great majority of members voted against it last year , and i would urge members to vote the same way this year on this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
