i thank the gentleman for yielding time . 
mr. chairman , i think the salient points have been made here . 
our federal government says to hospitals , you have to treat whoever comes in your door . 
it is not the hospital 's choice . 
i have toured the border hospitals . 
it is not just the border hospitals in arizona . 
it is hospitals 100 miles from the border . 
it is hospitals in tucson . 
it is hospitals in phoenix . 
it is others . 
they do not have the luxury of deciding who they are going to treat . 
yet this amendment would say , sorry , you have to treat them , and because of our failure to impose control at the border , you are just stuck with the bill . 
that is simply not right . 
nobody is more convinced than the gentleman from arizona ( mr. kolbe ) xz4002260 and me of the need for immigration reform . 
that is why we have proffered legislation to do that . 
i would challenge those who have offered this amendment , please join us or offer your own legislation . 
we can not continue with the status quo . 
it is just eating us alive in arizona , not just health care costs but education costs , criminal justice costs , across the board . 
but let us find a solution . 
let us not simply pretend that it does not exist , pretend that those who are here just do not exist . 
they do . 
we have got to do something about it . 
let us work together and do it , not just say , hey , unfunded mandate , sorry , got to deal with it . 
and to say that , well , let 's not entice them further , let 's not provide any of the funding until we get immigration reform , tell that to the hospitals who could not survive . 
they will be closed . 
they simply are doing what the federal government tells them to do in terms of admitting patients and under this they would simply say , sorry , we ca n't fund it . 
we 're going to have to close our doors . 
i commend the gentleman for opposing the amendment . 
i join with him , and i encourage all of my colleagues to say , let 's find a solution . 
let 's have meaningful , comprehensive immigration reform that will deal with issues like this . 
but let us not bury our heads in the sand . 
