mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , let me begin by expressing my appreciation to the gentleman from illinois for his magnanimity and largeness of thought in this matter . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of this amendment to restore the funding for arts in education programs to $ 35.6 million . 
unfortunately , the underlying labor-hhs appropriations bill zeros out this program , effectively eliminating it . 
this year , 106 of our colleagues from both sides of the aisle , include my friends , the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 and the gentleman from iowa ( mr. leach ) xz4002360 , joined me in writing to the committee asking for $ 53 million in arts in education funding . 
given the funding constraints in the bill , the amendment instead asked that we simply level fund the program , the number passed after conference last year . 
this program provides funds to establish model programs at the department of education that brings arts education to schools across the country as well as funds to support the professional development of arts educators . 
the program also supports the ongoing national arts education initiatives of the john f. kennedy center for the performing arts and vsa arts which ensure that people with disabilities can learn through , participate in and enjoy the arts . 
time and again , parents , educators and community leaders tell us that arts education is critical for preparing our nation 's children to succeed in school , work and life . 
years of research demonstrate that a real significant link exists between arts education and students ' academic performance and social development . 
arts funding and education funding is not controversial and is nonpartisan . 
some of the most vocal proponents of arts in education include republican governor mike huckabee and former education secretary rod paige . 
i know the gentleman from ohio ( chairman regula ) also is supportive of arts in education programs . 
i would like to thank the gentleman for working with the senate each year to increase funding in conference , and thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 for his leadership on this issue . 
i understand that this is a tight bill in a tight funding year generally , but it is important that the house voice its support for this program . 
so i ask the distinguished chairman and the ranking member to work with me and the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 and the gentleman from iowa ( mr. leach ) xz4002360 to assure that funds for these beneficial , well-liked programs are maintained , if not increased , in conference this year . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 1/2 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from iowa ( mr. leach ) xz4002360 . 
