mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i am offering this amendment and i will withdraw it because of a scoring problem , but i did want to bring this to the committee 's attention . 
today over 1 million individuals in the united states are infected with hiv , including about 406 , 000 with aids . 
new york city is one of the national epicenters of the hiv/aids epidemic , with over 110 , 000 people infected with hiv . 
over 30 percent of those infected in new york city are women , and 75 percent are from minority groups . 
these devastating numbers are ones that my constituents are all too familiar with . 
like many of our colleagues , i was deeply disappointed that the critical aids drug assistance programs , known as adaps , only received a $ 10 million increase in this year 's labor-hhs appropriations bill . 
there is no question of the need for adaps . 
they have become a cornerstone of the ryan white care act since advances in drug treatments like antiretroviral therapies have had a profound effect on extending the quality and length of life of those infected with hiv/aids . 
appropriate and consistent treatment results in near complete suppression of hiv as well as preventing the emergence of drug resistance . 
yes , it is expensive , but every life saved is worth it . 
the president last year authorized a $ 20 million one-time emergency supplement to the adap program that will expire this september . 
even with this emergency measure , as of may 12 of this year , almost 1 , 900 individuals were on adap waiting lists in 10 states . 
nearly every adap state has already had to make incredibly tough choices on cost containment measures , such as closed enrollment , reduced formularities , per capita expenditure limits , lowered income eligibility , waiting lists , and increased client cost-sharing . 
nine states even require individuals applying for adap to demonstrate hiv/aids advanced disease progression , at which point drug assistance has only a limited benefit . 
now , mr. chairman , it has come to my attention that many states have ryan white care act funds appropriated to them in previous legislative years that are at risk for expiration . 
my amendment simply grants a 1-year extension to states to use expiring , unexpended care act funds , rather than allowing the funds to return to the treasury . 
i do not understand why this was scored the way it was , and i intend to fight for a change . 
the unspent funds typically result in delays in notice of grant awards from the federal government , timing issues relating to subcontracting of services , payroll savings due to state hiring delays or freezes , expenditure of other grant funds for similar services , or other unanticipated fluctuations in spending at the state level . 
this congress , we will reauthorize and continue to improve the ryan white care act , which will likely address some of these financing issues . 
in the meantime , it is unfortunate that cbo scored my amendment as a new appropriation , as preserving these expiring , previously appropriated funds would have given states a new window of opportunity to help more people . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
