mr. chairman , i rise to express my strong support for the chairman regula 's , amendment and urge my colleagues to vote in favor of increased funding for programs aimed at getting veterans into jobs . 
mr. chairman , the national veterans employment and training institute is run by the university of colorado under contract to the department of labor . 
their mission is to train disabled veteran outreach program specialists and local veterans employment representatives ( dvops and lvers ) how to place veterans who are seeking employment in good-paying jobs . 
i want to emphasize that dvops and lvers are state employees who usually work for the state employment service . 
the extra 500 thousand dollars will allow nvti to increase its training load for the next year by nearly 20 percent . 
that means that more dvops and lvers will get basic and advanced training in such skills as case management , compliance investigation , job coaching , promoting partnerships , presentation skills , and transition assistance for those being discharged . 
the homeless veterans reintegration act , or hvrp , is designed to get homeless veterans off the streets and back into the labor market . 
the typical grantee provides the safe living quarters and supportive services to men and women who have hit bottom and are seeking a way out of what may have been decades of homelessness . 
recent data indicates this is a highly cost effective program . 
for a program cost of a little over $ 2 , 200 per job placement averaging about $ 9.25 per hour , an hvrp client potentially returns about $ 2 , 800 in taxes per year to the federal government . 
i call that a good investment in human capital . 
the chairman 's amendment will add three million dollars to the $ 22 million proposed by the president . 
i salute the chairman for his efforts on behalf of homeless veterans . 
this additional funding will provide opportunities for hundreds more homeless veterans . 
according to the veterans employment and training staff , three million dollars will fund nine to 12 new grantees and service over 1 , 000 more homeless veterans . 
surely , this is a worthy cause . 
mr. chairman , this is a good amendment that every member can take pride in and i urge my colleagues to vote yes . 
