mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to the gentleman from california 's ( mr. honda ) xz4001850 amendment . 
the gentleman talks about two distinct and particular points in his amendment . 
first , schools routinely share students ' information with various vendors . 
and whether they sell that information or share it , there are a lot of different forums . 
and during the consideration of no child left behind , the gentleman from california ( mr. george miller ) xz4002780 and i worked closely to try to protect students ' privacy . 
and what we developed at the end of the bill was an opportunity for parents to have their children 's names opted out of the information that would be sold or shared with outside vendors , thereby giving parents the right to protect their children 's privacy . 
but a second point , a more important point , is that some schools were sharing this information with private vendors , but would not share it with the u.s. military . 
and the agreement that we came to on the floor of this house in a very broad bipartisan way was that to the extent that a school sells or shares student data , they must treat military recruiters in a nondiscriminatory way , or , in other words , treat all people who would want access to this data to have access to it in the same way . 
now , if schools do not want to share the data with military recruiters , that is fine . 
they can not share the data then with anyone . 
but to the extent that they want to sell that data to publishers and others who would seek that , they must give the military the right to that information as well . 
i think students across america ought to have access to information to the united states military . 
it has been a wonderful career for tens of millions of americans , and the fact is that the practice is going on in far too many schools discriminates against the needs of our military . 
so i would ask my colleagues to reject the gentleman 's amendment . 
we have dealt with this issue in a comprehensive way in no child left behind , and we did it in a broad bipartisan way . 
