mr. speaker , i rise today to speak against this amendment which seeks to restrict illegal aliens access to the u.s. mexican social security totalization agreement . 
i can not support this agreement , not for its intent , but because of the consequences of enforcing it . 
i agree with mr. hayworth that immigration is an issue that must be addressed . 
however , the remedy that this amendment creates would lead to more harm then good and violates a fundamental aspect of american ideals . 
this amendment seeks to ensure that benefits ca n't be paid under the u.s. mexico totalization agreement for work inconsistent with federal law . 
undocumented aliens working within the united states would meet the criteria of work inconsistent with federal law and therefore would be denied benefits . 
this method of dealing with our nation 's immigration problem is not the answer . 
social security is a contract : you put money in , you get money out . 
denying undocumented aliens the money that they put into social security is to violate what is at the very center of americn ideals . 
weare a country that values hard work . 
you get what you give . 
refusing to grant social security benefits to undocumented aliens who have spent their entire lives working and contributing to the system is a blatant violation of contract law . 
our nation faces many challenges on the issue of immigration . 
our immigration system is far from perfect . 
we have filipinos waiting 18 years just to have a person look over their application . 
we have families who are forced to wait years upon years to be reunited with their brethren . 
we need comprehensive reform . 
this amendment would denigrate the hard work of thousands of workers who have spent their lives working hard in this great nation . 
if an undocumented alien puts a dollar into the social security system this amendment would rob him of that dollar . 
is this the gop 's plan to solve the social security conundrum ; to rob undocumented aliens of their social security benefits . 
to refuse to put more boarder guards on our frontiers , only to rob those who are attempting to create a better life for themselves . 
this is not immigration reform . 
our immigration situation is a problem that needs to be solved . 
i will be the first to admit that . 
but reforms such as this amendment are not the correct method to achieve that goal . 
we need comprehensive immigration reform . 
i can not support this amendment because i feel it unduly robs undocumented aliens of their hard earned wages . 
this amendment will not solve our nation 's immigration problems . 
it only serves to violate simple contract theory . 
i believe in an american in which you get what you put in . 
this amendment contradicts that belief and therefore i must oppose it . 
