mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word . 
mr. chairman , if i could have the attention of the gentleman from ohio , i simply rise neither to speak for nor against this amendment , but simply to make an observation about it . 
the situation that the gentleman from ohio finds himself in on this issue is a very difficult one , because he is trying to balance between two legitimate claims on the federal treasury . 
we have seen , as was observed in the washington post article this morning , a parade of members come down to the floor yesterday and today trying to wiggle out from the consequences of the budget resolution which was imposed on the entire house by the passage of that resolution . 
now , i do not like to be in that position . 
i have a little less sympathy for the gentleman from ohio than i do for myself on this issue , because he voted for the budget resolution and i did not . 
but that being said , there is no right position on an amendment like this . 
this issue simply demonstrates that when the money that you provide for education is inadequate , when it is inadequate to the needs of the nation , then we are going to be eating each other 's favorite programs , then you are going to have all kinds of interest groups in this country chewing on each other and each trying to get out from under at the expense of everybody else . 
so i can actually understand why the gentleman opposes this amendment , because he needs some flexibility in conference to deal with some of the legitimate concerns that members have . 
i love the program the gentleman from georgia is trying to add money to . 
i had a son in the gifted and talented program . 
he was a national merit scholar . 
yet i would have a great deal of difficulty voting to add money for that program at the expense of programs that went to help less gifted and less advantaged children in this society . 
so the amendment is half right and half wrong , and i hope , therefore , that the members on the majority side and the minority side will understand why the gentleman from ohio is so reluctantly against this amendment . 
