mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word . 
mr. chairman , the gentleman said , for some reason we think that mr. tomlinson is being political . 
i wonder why ? 
mr. tomlinson is the follow who said that public radio stations should get in line with the republican election victory . 
mr. tomlinson is the person who appointed a consultant in order to try to measure the number of instances when people on pbs programs were , quote , anti-bush or , quote , anti-delay . 
mr. tomlinson is the person who recommended the appointment to head the corporation of a former cochairman of the republican national committee . 
if bill clinton had appointed the former democratic national chairman to the public broadcasting board , the other side would be having a conniption fit . 
the other side would be screaming in outrage and passing out motions of impeachment ; they have had a lot of practice at that . 
it is also mr. tomlinson who was reported to have worked to raise money in order to put the wall street journal editorial board on public broadcasting . 
now , there is an objective operation for you . 
i would also suggest that what is at work here is something broader than mr. tomlinson . 
what i think is happening is this , mr. chairman . 
i think we have a `` thought police '' brigade loose around the country . 
and we have seen evidence of it in a number of places . 
we saw it in the schiavo case , where the republican majority tried to tell every american family how they had to handle an end-of-life decision . 
then we saw it in the efforts of the majority leader , the gentleman from texas ( mr. delay ) xz4001040 , who fired a shot at every judge in the country who had the temerity to think for themselves , warning them if they did not toe the line , he would go after their jurisdiction . 
and then you have this effort to appoint the chairman of the republican national committee as head of public broadcasting . 
and then i wonder why the american people get a little nervous about the thought police at work . 
the fact is that every public opinion poll shows that the american people have more confidence in the objectivity of public television and public radio than they do any other news outlet , and certainly more confidence in their objectivity than they have in us as a body . 
we have hit a new low recently in terms of public approval of the way this congress is operating , i would say with good reason , because this congress spends so much time worrying about things that affect itself rather than worry about things that affect the american people . 
so i think there is a very good reason for the gentleman 's amendment . 
i regret that there is a necessity to bring it up . 
but i do think that mr. tomlinson is primarily responsible for politicizing this entire issue . 
mr. chairman , i do not mind seeing republicans on public broadcasting . 
i do not think there was a better show on television than bill buckleys 's program through the years . 
bill buckley had a huge intellect , and i think the country was served by the programs that he had on that program for many years . 
i do not think the country is served well when mr. tomlinson takes upon himself the duty of being the thought policeman for the entire country on public television . 
that crosses the line . 
he ought to go . 
he ought to resign . 
this congress ought to demand that he do so . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
