mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of this amendment . 
we have heard a number of members on the majority side of the aisle say we should not overturn a court decision . 
where were you on the schiavo case when you brought the congress back in order to stick your nose into the very painful end-of-life decisions that were made by a family in agony ? 
you did not hesitate to try to overturn a court decision then . 
get straight , fellows , come on . 
this amendment is absolutely necessary if we are going to stop the dumping of pension obligations on the taxpayers of the united states . 
the taxpayers have enough trouble now getting their representatives to do real things to fix social security and now they are going to dump the responsibility for private pensions on the taxpayer as well . 
that is goofy and it is gutless . 
it is stupid . 
it is negligent . 
outside of that , it is a terrific idea . 
what i would say is this , and i hope the house remembers this when the treasury bill is on the floor next week because i got added to that bill a requirement that the general accounting office do a study to determine whether or not we need to re-regulate the airlines and treat them as a necessary public utility providing service to every community in this country in order to save our pension system for airline employees . 
if we do not do that , if we do not do that , we can bet there will not be a single airline that has a private pension system by the end of the decade . 
there will be a race to the bottom in terms of costs , and the first people who are going to get run over in that race are going to be the workers who thought they had a private pension system . 
this congress needs to start talking about matters that affect the people back home rather than continuing to focus on matters that deal with the welfare of people inside the system and inside the beltway in washington . 
it is about time congress quit paying attention to little details that have nothing to do with people 's lives and start focusing on big problems like preservation of their private pensions . 
this is the only way that we can fire a shot across the do-nothing leadership of this congress ' bow and get some movement on this crucial pension issue . 
