mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , thank you for allowing us to have this debate . 
i believe it has been a good debate and we do support the amendment , many of us on this side of the aisle , although a couple who spoke do not support it . 
it is important as we talked about it earlier today that we remembered that 53 percent of america 's private debt is held by foreign countries , 53 percent . 
that means many of our debt and the two owners of those debts are japan first , and china second . 
53 percent of our private debt is owned by foreign countries . 
i think that is not good for our country , for our grandchildren . 
we have got to strengthen america , calling those debts when we are able to pay them off , and give america back to americans . 
should we have work with china ? 
and i said this earlier , yes , we should , and other foreign markets . 
this is an international , global community that we live in . 
but we should always put america first , and i think the debate that we have had today , and i thank the gentleman from california ( mr. pombo ) xz4003220 for some of his remarks and for the resolution , the sense of the congress , again , will reinforce what we have done earlier today . 
we have got to make sure that american companies stay strong so that americans can continue to work , so they can take care of their families , pay taxes , help cities , towns and villages maintain themselves with the revenue that it gets from them . 
so trade , yes , and this is free trade . 
somebody said free trade . 
this is not that deal . 
this is something less than that . 
as the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. jefferson ) xz4002010 spoke , it is getting the corner of the market because you can pay $ 18.5 billion in cash at a time when our country has $ 160 billion trade deficit and then you turn some of that money back and want to buy our company . 
it is not a good deal . 
we call on cfius , the committee on foreign investment in the united states , secretary snowe and his 12-member committee to look closely at what is before them , to do the proper investigation and then not to recommend to the president that we go forward with this sale . 
it is not the right time for america . 
it will weaken our economy . 
and our national security interests as well as our economic interests , as well as our energy interests are at stake . 
so , mr. speaker , let us not do this sale . 
let us continue to build america and keep america strong . 
mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time . 
