mr. speaker , once again i want to commend the chairman of the committee for his wonderful work in this area and commend the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood ) xz4002960 for keeping this issue alive as he has tried to enact these appropriate reforms . 
once again from the opposition we have heard some very interesting stories . 
but the problem is they do not have anything to do with the bill . 
i am reminded of the newspaper correction column , that column that is on page 5 or 6 or 10 or 12 . 
we need a correction column right here . 
the misstatements and the untruths by the opponents would be amusing if this were not so doggone important . 
we are not interested in dismantling osha . 
we are interested in improving workers ' safety . 
i rise to support h.r. 741 , and i want to once again bring us back to the magnitude of the issues we are talking about . 
small business , 99.7 percent of all business is small business ; and 75 percent of all new jobs are hired in the small business sector . 
have my colleagues ever been up against big brother ? 
ever been up against big brother ? 
osha 's budget is $ 468 million ; 2 , 200 employees ; 1 , 100 inspectors . 
osha is big brother . 
and the analogy has been used here , but what if big brother were the prosecutor and the judge and the jury ? 
unfair ? 
unfair ? 
you bet . 
that is the current system . 
that is the current system under which we are working . 
osha is the prosecutor , it is the judge , and it is the jury . 
and that was not the intent . 
that was not the intent . 
h.r. 741 restores the original intent and the original system of checks and balances that was intended by congress . 
read the bill . 
what does it say ? 
all it says is : `` the conclusions of the commission with respect to all questions of law that are subject to agency deference under governing court precedent shall be given deference if reasonable. '' that is it . 
that is all it says . 
what does it mean ? 
it means that the review committee will be the independent committee and the commission that congress intended originally . 
very simple common sense . 
i urge my colleagues to adopt h.r. 741 . 
