mr. speaker , i once again want to commend the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood ) xz4002960 for his wonderful and excellent work in the area of worker safety and his real concern for making certain that the rules under which we ask businesses and employees to work are workable . 
we are all interested in workplace safety . 
we have got to get that on the table as often as possible . 
we are all interested in workplace safety . 
now , the gentleman from california ( mr. george miller ) xz4002780 made some very moving and interesting points . 
the problem is , they do not have a thing to do with this bill , not a thing to do with this bill . 
we have just heard that grievances should be heard . 
that is a concern of somebody opposed to this bill , that grievances should be heard . 
well , we agree . 
the grievances should be heard . 
but as you heard from the gentleman from georgia ( mr. norwood ) xz4002960 , two-thirds of the time the commission has been unable to sit for a variety of reasons , not the least of which they have been unable to seat a quorum . 
and then the question is raised : if you can not sit three , how can you sit five ? 
no , the question is , if you can not sit two , how could you sit three ? 
well if you add two people to the commission , to the review commission , then it makes all of the sense in the world that you have made it easier to reach a quorum . 
mr. speaker , i think it is also important that we keep in mind the magnitude of the discussion that we are talking about and why these things need to be fixed : 99.7 percent of all business is small business , 99.7 percent . 
and 75 percent of all new jobs in this nation have been created in small businesses . 
small business owners , they work hard and they drive our economy . 
in this instance , regarding 740 , i rise in support of h.r. 740 because if those small business owners are not working , they are not producing . 
if they are not producing , then jobs are not being created . 
once cited by osha , an employer deserves his or her expeditious day in court . 
and with the current membership of the review commission , it is often , we have heard extremely often , difficult to end that process . 
there are some cases that are before the commission right now that have been there for over 10 years , over 10 years . 
that is not fair to employers ; that is not fair to employees . 
so i rise and say that increasing the review commission will help small businesses , and it will increase the safety of workers ; and i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 740 . 
