mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 525 , the small business health fairness act of 2005 . 
today we face a problem . 
an estimated 45 million people are without health insurance . 
the number of uninsured has risen in almost every year since 1989 and is expected to continue its rise in the near term . 
most people in the u.s. who have health insurance obtain it through their employer or a family member 's employer as a workplace benefit . 
due to the rising cost of health coverage , small employers are far less likely than larger employers to provide health insurance to their workers and almost half of the uninsured work for , or are family members of employees who work for , small employers . 
the small business health fairness act would not address this problem . 
as a former small business owner , i understand the need for employers to offer benefits like health insurance to attract the best employees . 
i also understand the desire to offer benefits to employees to reward them for their efforts in making their business a success . 
small businesses are a vital part of our economy , and it is critical that we provide them with affordable heath coverage that not only covers their employees , but helps reduce the ranks of the uninsured in our nation . 
unfortunately , the association health plans created by h.r. 525 would actually reduce health care benefits and coverage . 
in fact , the congressional budget office estimates that only 600 , 000 of the 45 million uninsured would receive coverage as a result of this bill . 
the cbo also found that almost 75 percent of workers would actually see their premiums rise . 
these numbers are evidence that this legislation will not address the problem . 
the bill raises numerous other concerns as well . 
it would create an uneven playing field where federal law would provide one set of favorable rules for employers who join association health plans and a different , less favorable set of rules for those who do not . 
association health plans would be exempt from most state benefit requirements , including those that ensure access to emergency services , mental health services and cancer screening . 
they would be free to choose healthier individuals who are cheaper to insure and leave behind those most in need of health care coverage . 
finally , association health plans under this bill would be allowed to license themselves in a state with looser consumer protection provisions than the state they offer coverage in , leaving consumers open to fraud and abuse . 
these loopholes will not address the problem . 
however , today we will offer a real solution to this problem . 
the substitute amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin , mr. kind , and the gentleman from new jersey , mr. andrews , would address the needs of small businesses by providing them with the same access to health benefits as federal employees through a small employer health benefits plan . 
this plan would provide coverage to all small businesses and their employees , ensuring that every worker gets the coverage they need regardless of age , sex , race or any other factor . 
additionally , it would commit federal funds to aid small businesses in offering health insurance to employees . 
finally , it would work within existing state laws and not preempt state regulations regarding health care coverage . 
this substitute will help small businesses more , cover more of the uninsured , and protect the rights of states . 
unfortunately , without the kind/andrews amendment , i can not support the small business health fairness act . 
this is the fourth time the house has voted on association health plans and the fourth time it has been the wrong answer for small businesses and the uninsured . 
this is just another example of the majority bringing the same legislation to the floor year after year knowing that it will go nowhere because it is the wrong answer for americans . 
i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the kind/andrews amendment , which would provide real solutions to help our nation 's small businesses and cover the 45 million uninsured americans . 
