mr. speaker , there currently are 45 million americans who do not have health insurance and are looking for real solutions for their lack of health care coverage . 
unfortunately , h.r. 525 , the so-called small business health fairness act , is not their answer . 
in fact , this bill allows insurance companies to preempt state law , making possible a race to the bottom by associated health plans as companies , because of this bill , can offer the cheapest insurance with the least coverage . 
the idea that we would allow insurance companies to trump state law is really outrageous . 
laws to protect those with diabetes , those with cancer , and a host of other ailments are at risk under this plan . 
that is why i offered an amendment in the committee on rules , along with the gentlewoman from new york ( mrs. mccarthy ) xz4002570 , that would protect mammograms and cervical cancer screenings from being preempted by association health plans . 
unfortunately , the republican majority does not see the value in protecting women from breast and/or cervical cancer , because they would not allow our amendment to come to the floor to be debated before we voted on this bill . 
mr. speaker , in my district , the sixth congressional district of california , the women of marin county are plagued by an unusually high rate of breast cancer , and particularly young woman have the high incidence of breast cancers . 
but , fortunately , in california we require insurance companies to cover mammograms . 
so while the women of marin county still have to worry about their community 's high rate of breast cancer , at least they know their insurance companies can not deny them access to the best available screening tools . 
i can not accept the idea of even one woman in this nation foregoing an annual mammogram or a pap smear only to be diagnosed later with advanced breast or cervical cancer because an association health plan does not provide coverage . 
this is a risk we can not afford , and i urge my colleagues to vote `` no '' on h.r. 525 . 
