mr. speaker , i oppose this rule and the underlying bill because it will result in preempting state laws and in a reduction in health care . 
ahps would be exempt from having to provide certain critical services , preempting state laws which require coverage . 
mr. speaker , this nation spends millions and millions of dollars on cancer treatments . 
we also spend millions of dollars just on research and development . 
this bill would take away a tool that is used to save lives . 
the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey ) xz4004360 and i offered an amendment to this legislation both in committee and again last night in the committee on rules . 
the amendment would have prohibited employers from joining ahps if it would mean a reduction in coverage for breast and cervical cancer services . 
unfortunately , the amendment was not accepted . 
almost every state has recognized the need to cut health care costs and still provide quality services to their citizens . 
the states know that without guaranteeing these services , patients will not receive the health care they need . 
members have to remember the attorneys general fought in their states to make sure that women would have this care . 
why did they fight for it ? 
because the insurance companies would not offer it . 
according to the american cancer society , over 211 , 000 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in the united states in this year alone . 
in new york state , there will be 14 , 000 new cases of breast cancer diagnosed this year alone . 
breast cancer is a potentially fatal , but very treatable , disease . 
however , early detection is the key to proper treatment . 
mammogram screenings are essential for the early detection of breast cancer . 
timely screening can prevent 15 to 30 percent of all deaths from breast cancer among women over 40 years old . 
currently , new york and 48 other states require insurance companies to cover mammogram screenings . 
the u.s. department of health and human services has stated that mammograms save women 's lives . 
former secretary tommy thompson stated , `` the federal government makes a clear recommendation for women over 40 to have mammograms , get screened for breast cancer with mammograms every 1 to 2 years . 
the early detection of breast cancer can save lives. '' preventive screening for cervical cancer is also vital for women 's health . 
over 10 , 000 new cases of cervical cancer will be diagnosed this year , and nearly 1 , 000 of those cases are residing in my home state of new york . 
nearly 4 , 000 women will die in 2005 from cervical cancer . 
preserving the coverage of mammograms and cervical screenings will help save the lives of our wives , mothers and daughters , and also keep down the cost of health care in this country . 
i know many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have supported similar measures while in their home states as legislators . 
they have shown commitment to their home state , and now it is time to show commitment to the nation . 
as a nurse , i know first hand the importance of early detection . 
i have seen the hardships cancer patients endure . 
since i have been here , i have done outreach within my district to get women in for their cervical exams and women over 40 in to get their mammograms . 
this is very important , and we should not miss this opportunity to save lives . 
for this reason , i oppose the rule and the underlying bill . 
