mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
i appreciate those who have spoken on the bill today . 
i appreciate the gentleman from georgia ( mr. gingrey ) xz4001510 , a member of the medical profession , who so eloquently talked about some of the realities of this particular bill and what we are looking at . 
and i appreciate the gentlewoman from california and her wonderful and kind way in which she handled the rule on the minority side . 
just as a means of criteria of what we are going through as far as the rule itself , every amendment that was proposed for this particular rule was discussed thoroughly and voted upon in the committee , with the exception of obviously the motion to recommit . 
with the debate we have had in previous years , every element of this bill has been thoroughly debated both on the floor and in committee , this year as well as in years past . 
i have to admit , mr. speaker , my favorite senator , even though i am not supposed to have one , is the junior senator from kentucky who is the only one to have won 100 games in both the american and the national league . 
because of that , i have his baseball cards . 
i hope he does very well over there because if they continue to rise in value , that may be the only way i pay for my health care in the future . 
i was reading on the airplane coming back yesterday of a story of senator bunning when he was a pitcher for the detroit tigers and he was facing the yankees . 
the yankees sent out bob turley to be the first base coach because he was great at picking off signals . 
sure enough , he knew what the signals were . 
his signal would be every time a fastball was coming , he would whistle at the batter . 
hank bauer is the first batter up there . 
fastball , he whistled , bauer hit a screamer into left field . 
the second batter is tony kubek . 
fastball , whistle , he hit what would have been extra bases into right field except the second baseman caught the ball in self-defense . 
the third hitter up is mickey mantle . 
by this time the pitcher is upset with what is going on and takes a couple of steps to turley and says , `` next time you whistle , i 'm going to drill the batter. '' he takes a couple of steps to the batter and tells him the same thing . 
sure enough , a fastball , the whistle , mantle does not swing . 
the next pitch is a slider which hits mantle right in the legs . 
he is upset , takes a couple of steps towards the mound , but the catcher and the umpire direct him to first base . 
the next batter up is yogi berra . 
once again , fastball , the whistle comes , yogi does not take it , but then remembering what happened , he steps out of the batter 's box , cups his hands and yells back at senator bunning who is the pitcher at this time and says , `` he may be whistling , but i ai n't listening. '' mr. speaker , there are a lot of people who have been whistling at us on this particular issue . 
every time i go to a town hall meeting , i face people who want some kind of relief in the ability of getting insurance . 
i get letters from them all the time . 
when small businesspeople come to my office , they are talking repeatedly about this particular issue . 
they are all whistling , asking for some kind of relief . 
i realize i talked about my three sons who did not have insurance . 
my two that still do not will not have it under this bill because the provisions do not allow them to participate . 
but my next-door neighbor who is trying to make a living in a shop down on main street that does not have insurance could under the provisions of this bill . 
those are real-life people who need this kind of assistance and help , and they can not get it any other way . 
the status quo does not offer this kind of assistance . 
this is one of those few rays of hope that they will have . 
these people are truly whistling at us . 
our job as congress is to finally listen . 
mr. speaker , i urge support of the rule on the underlying bill , h.r. 525 . 
mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution . 
the previous question was ordered . 
the resolution was agreed to . 
a motion to reconsider was laid on the table . 
