mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner ) xz4003650 for sponsoring this legislation . 
i am glad to be a co-author/cosponsor of the legislation . 
the burden victims carry does not go away when the headlines do . 
the children 's safety act has important preventative measures , but it also instigates appropriate response after a citizen has been victimized . 
the children 's safety act provides tough tools to keep predators accountable and their whereabouts known by the rest of us . 
there is one thing that a predator wants more than anything else and that is to remain anonymous , to sneak in and out of our communities and commit their criminal ways . 
the issue of protecting our children from predators is on the minds of every mother and father as they put their children on school buses every morning during the school year . 
from the countless phone calls , letters , and e-mails pleading to protect our kids from sex predators , we know these protections to our children in the children 's safety act are a priority to our nation and our people . 
keeping our children safe from predators should be all of our priorities here in the united states congress . 
we know that child molesters , after they leave the penitentiary , most of them do it again . 
in this country , we are able to track a cow from the time it is born as a calf to the time it ends up on the supper table somewhere in the united states as a steak . 
we do that because of public safety . 
now we are going to track child molesters when they leave the penitentiary . 
we will track them indefinitely because of public safety . 
children should be at least as important as cattle . 
as a co-author and cosponsor of the children 's safety act , as a former judge in houston , texas , i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to listen to their constituents , listen to the people of this country , vote in favor of safety for american children . 
the days of child molesters running and hiding are over . 
