mr. chairman , i rise in defense of children . 
while i stand alone at the podium , i wish we were all standing together on behalf of foster children created by katrina . 
the other day i introduced the emergency action for vulnerable children act , h.r. 3711 . 
today i offer 3711 as an amendment to the child safety act of 2005 . 
there is really not a moment to lose . 
we must accept responsibility for the safety and welfare of foster children affected in this crisis . 
when katrina slammed into the gulf coast , thousands of foster children were separated from foster families in shelters , and they will fall through the social safety net unless we act . 
in drafting this legislation , i worked closely with organizations like the national foster parent association and the child welfare league of america . 
these organizations are working directly with others on the ground in the affected region , and they said what we needed to hear : the federal government must become an immediate and reliable partner for states trying to cope with the human needs that are outstripping their individual ability to effectively respond . 
late yesterday the child welfare league , which represents 900 public and private caregivers across the country , endorsed the emergency action for vulnerable children . 
mr. chairman , i would like to quote from their letter : `` many child welfare league of america member agencies are working in the disaster area to connect children with their families and to continue to provide services to those children in care. '' they report to us directly about their struggles in attempting to meet the needs of children and families devastated by the disaster . 
h.r. 3711 begins to address these issues . 
it is clear that it will take a sustained effort on the part of volunteers and local , state and federal governments , to help these children and families , quote , and continuing to quote , `` this legislation provides an assurance that the federal government stands as a partner with state and local governments to meet the needs of these children. '' mr. chairman , there are no gotchas in this amendment . 
its intent is clear , and will focus much more needed federal resources on foster children affected by the hurricane . 
the legislation is bipartisan in spirit and humanitarian in fact . 
the current child welfare program simply can not handle a crisis of this magnitude . 
rules of eligibility vary from state to state . 
in many cases , vulnerable children may not be receiving mental health treatment or family counseling . 
we must change that , and we can . 
because h.r. 3711 cuts through the red tape and makes the federal government , appropriately in a national crisis , responsible for paying for urgently needed care . 
this is no time to have a boatload of rules and regulations . 
this is a time to provide a boatload of help . 
with one vote , we can demonstrate our leadership in this time of national crisis . 
with one vote , we can make every foster child entitled to immediate federal help . 
there is no reason to wait . 
there is no justification to wait . 
katrina is a natural disaster and a national crisis . 
this act is a rescue mission , plain and simple . 
mr. chairman , given the magnitude of the crisis and the urgency of the need , i urge my colleagues to allow my amendment to be voted on . 
if there was an alternative before us , i could accept that as a price of speaking for the minority party , but no such legislation exists . 
mr. chairman , the question really is , if not now , when ? 
if not us , who will defend and save these children ? 
we witnessed the horror and the tragedy on tv . 
thousands of foster children lived through that . 
the image in their minds , the insecurity in their hearts is real and overwhelming . 
we can not leave them alone . 
as the ranking democrat on the subcommittee on human resources , this committee is responsible for protecting these children . 
we can not turn our backs and hope that somehow , some way , someone somewhere will respond to the needs of these children . 
across this country , americans are responding to the crisis the only way they know how , by stepping up with a big heart and an open wallet to help their fellow americans in need . 
they are looking to us to lead the nation through this crisis . 
we did it once together . 
we can do it again . 
let us prove it by saving the children , today . 
child welfare league of america , washington , dc , september 13 , 2005 . 
dear congressman mcdermott : the child welfare league of america ( cwla ) , with our 900 public and private child-serving member agencies , endorses h.r. 3711 , the emergency action for vulnerable children act . 
we applaud your leadership in highlighting the needs of vulnerable foster children and families affected by hurricane katrina . 
many cwla member agencies are working in the disaster area to connect children with their families and to continue to provide services to those children in care . 
they report to us directly about their struggles in attempting to meet the needs of children and families devastated by this disaster . 
h.r. 3711 begins to address these issues by providing federal assistance to ensure that foster children receive the supports and services they need , including mental health treatment . 
h.r. 3711 allows the kind of broad and flexible funding that will assist louisiana , alabama , and mississippi , as well as help other states that are extending their hands in support of the relief efforts . 
it is clear that it will take a sustained effort on the part of volunteers and local , state , and federal governments to help these children and families cope . 
this legislation provides an assurance that the federal government stands as a partner with state and local governments to meet the needs of these children . 
thank you again for your continued leadership on behalf of children and families . 
count on cwla to work with you in any way possible to help the children and families affected by this disaster . 
sincerely , shay bilchik , 