mr. chairman , i rise today with my colleague , the gentleman from california ( mr. schiff ) xz4003610 , to offer this training technology amendment . 
the training and technology amendment addresses several key issues for law enforcement throughout the country when dealing with internet crime against children . 
these crimes committed against children on the internet are facilitated by the latest technologies and advances in computers and the internet . 
without properly equipping law enforcement , these cases will not be investigated and prosecuted effectively , allowing many predators to slip through the cracks in our criminal justice system . 
furthermore , many cases involving exploitation and enticement of children on the internet cross jurisdictional lines and even international boundaries . 
there is a great need for law enforcement prosecutors and investigators to have the ability to share information quickly as cases unfold . 
to address these needs , the training and technology amendment funds the department of justice $ 3 million to do two things : ( 1 ) train law enforcement to use the most up to date technology while investigating and collecting evidence from a suspected internet predator -- for example , recovering files from hard drives of suspected child pornographers . 
( 2 ) provide hardware and training to use software that microsoft is developing and donating to the department of justice . 
a similar project has successfully been implemented in canada . 
the software would link office of juvenile justice and delinquency preventions ' 46 regional internet crimes against children units with one database . 
this will allow law enforcement across the country and even internationally to work together and share information on cases that cross jurisdictions . 
in order for the child safety act to be successfully implemented , law enforcement must be equipped and trained to meet the challenges of investigating cases involving advanced technological tools . 
i urge my colleagues to support this important amendment . 
