mr. chairman , i move to strike the requisite number of words . 
mr. chairman , i strongly oppose this amendment . 
sex offenders are the worst in our society . 
they prey on our children as if they were cattle . 
the idea that they will voluntarily register needs to be thrown out the window because they simply will not . 
time and time again we have seen experiences where these people realize that the microscope of society is upon them . 
so they move and they try to relocate into other communities . 
our states , our 50 states , many are border states whereby if they are in tallahassee , florida , it is very easy to go to valdosta , georgia , very easy to get a new job and a new occupation . 
that has been the problem with the laws . 
we can not properly track these offenders . 
we can not follow their whereabouts . 
and if we do not have a strict punishment on them , they simply will continue to move about the country and prey on vulnerable children in other states . 
for god 's sake , if i come to washington , d.c. , and want to get a blockbuster movie , i have to get a new registration card . 
i have to put down my credit card , my driver 's license to rent a movie . 
and if i fail to return the movie , they charge me for the movie . 
there are penalties for violating simple rules of video rentals , and my colleagues would have us believe , oh , let us not be too harsh on these people . 
jessica lunsford was buried in a garbage bag by a known sex offender who failed to register . 
oh , let us not give him a 5-year minimum mandatory . 
let us not inconvenience him , john couey . 
let us not cause any unnecessary paperwork for john couey , while jessica lunsford is in a plastic garbage bag . 
we have to have a driver 's license in the state in which we live . 
we have to have a license tag in the state in which we reside . 
it takes us 48 hours to get our cable installed . 
but , god , no , let us not inconvenience by mandatory punishment if a sex offender fails to report . 
they are instructed before they are released of the obligations of their sentencing . 
they are told they must report in the new state . 
they are given adequate warning . 
for far too long we have opened up our jails and said hope you are better and then lost track of them . 
i said it before , we track library books better than we do these criminals , and it is time we balance the scale of justice in favor of our children . 
