madam speaker , democrats want to make sure that we help the victims of katrina first ; secondly , we want to make sure that there is oversight on the money that we are spending , a lot of money ; and , thirdly , we want to have an oversight , meaningful , in depth , honest , searching , courageous as to why the federal government was so inept in its response and so late . 
the good news is that the men and the women of the national guard , the coast guard and other elements of the federal government are now acting so courageously and effectively . 
that is what we want , and that is why we oppose this bill which would create a partisan congressional committee to investigate the inept federal response to katrina . 
because we believe it is imperative to establish an independent commission modeled on the highly regarded 9/11 commission . 
i will ask my friend who chairs the rules committee , who used to come to this floor on a regular basis and say , when democrats were in the majority , why will you not allow us to consider an alternative ? 
are you afraid that the majority of this house will say , yes , a commission is the right way to go ? 
are you afraid that you can not keep your members in line ? 
are you afraid and therefore do not give us an amendment , do not give us a motion to recommit with instructions ? 
what is the fear ? 
it is the fact that you are so focused on not having meaningful oversight , of keeping it in-house , of not having independence , that you do not allow us and the american public 's representatives to have that alternative considered on the floor . 
ladies and gentlemen , oppose this resolution and continue to demand an independent commission , just as the american people want . 
we did it with 9/11 . 
we can do it with katrina . 
we can do the work that the people expect us to do . 
vote against this resolution . 
madam speaker , let no one be mistaken about why democrats oppose this legislation . 
we oppose this bill -- which would create a partisan congressional committee to investigate the inept federal response to hurricane katrina -- because we believe it is imperative to establish an independent commission modeled on the highly regarded 9/11 commission . 
we are not alone . 
in fact , a washington post-abc news poll revealed this week that 76 percent of americans support an independent commission . 
some republicans support such a commission , as well . 
just this week , the republican senator vitter of louisiana -- whose constituents were directly affected by this devastating hurricane -- expressed his support for a commission . 
yet , madam speaker , this republican majority today has denied democrats the opportunity to even consider the bill offered by mr. hastings , which would create such an independent commission to investigate the local , state and federal response . 
let 's be clear : there is not bipartisanship coming from the other side of the aisle regarding the creation of real oversight . 
the speaker and senate majority leader announced this proposal without even consulting democrats . 
the reality is , if this republican majority were charged with investigating the actions of a democratic administration , there is no doubt in my mind that its oversight would be real and vigorous . 
but as the columnist david broder pointed out recently : `` majority republicans see themselves first and foremost as members of the bush team -- and do not want to make trouble by asking hard questions. '' this majority has refused to conduct oversight over this administration during the last 4 years . 
why should we believe that it is prepared to fulfill its constitutional responsibilities now ? 
we have no basis for believing that . 
and , that is why an independent commission is needed . 
i urge my colleagues to vote against this bill . 
