mr. speaker , this rule will allow us to debate h. j. res. 68 , a continuing resolution that will fund the federal government past september 30 . 
while this is an essential procedural measure , it also represents an opportunity . 
between now and november 18 , when the resolution expires , congress has a responsibility to step back and consider its priorities . 
the facts on the ground have changed , and our agenda here in the house must change accordingly . 
i am confident that we will do right by those affected by the hurricanes , but we still need to ask ourselves where our financial and legislative duties are in response to katrina construction , continued funding for iraq and afghanistan , and increasing fiscal deficit . 
are we looking at the big picture ? 
are our priorities in line with our financial obligations ? 
we know that because of katrina , the victims , those displaced from their homes , are more likely to rely on medicaid . 
with that known expense , can we honestly reduce the funding for this responsibility and still extend tax cuts ? 
mr. speaker , we need to take care of our fellow citizens , but what we do now should not mean we pass on an unsustainable debt to future generations , especially when we know there is a way we can offset these costs . 
for the costs of this year 's installments of the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 , $ 225 billion this year alone , we could pay for the gulf states ' recovery from katrina . 
we know that we need some of these cuts , such as amt relief , but let us at least be reasonable and put them on the table . 
we must have an honest discussion about our fiscal situation . 
i urge my colleagues to step back and take a hard look at how we will move forward , not just this fall , but next year and the decades after that . 
mr. speaker , i am sure that all of my colleagues have heard me talk about my granddaughter anna , and we all have someone like her , someone we see as our future , someone that means the world to us . 
i believe that she will grow up to a better future . 
but , to do right by them , we must all step up to the plate , not as members of one party or another , but as leaders and statesmen willing to accept the reality of our fiscal situation and make the difficult decisions . 
our priorities in the coming months should not waver from the ultimate goal . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
