mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i hope i do not consume very much . 
mr. speaker , i am pleased to bring to the house the continuing resolution for fiscal year 2006 . 
the cr will run through november 18 . 
it is a clean cr without exception . 
several members are pushing the extension of dairy programs , adding emergency spending for the corps of engineers , and a whole host of other ideas . 
we have rejected them all . 
these items can be addressed in the next supplemental , regular fiscal year 2006 bills , or in reconciliation . 
the cr will fund agencies at the lower of three levels : the house-passed level , the senate-passed level , or fiscal year 2005 current rates . 
agencies funded in the labor-hhs , treasury , transportation and defense bills will be funded at the lower of the house-passed or current rates since the senate will not pass these bills by october 1. the house and senate have not passed a cr under the current framework since 1994 . 
by returning to a traditional cr that funds the government operations at the lowest possible level , it will provide a strong motivation for this congress to complete its work in regular order and produce individual appropriations bills and conference reports . 
i want the body to know the committee on appropriations is strongly committed to bringing back to this floor individual conference reports for each and every bill . 
the committee does not support an omnibus or minibus in any form and will do everything in its power to ensure that that does not happen . 
i remain committed to moving these bills individually and within the framework of the budget resolution . 
in order to help the senate with the difficult process of passing the treasury , transportation and labor-hhs bills , we will continue to push the lower rate , long-term continuing resolution prospect . 
i am convinced that this is the only way for us to get back to regular order . 
the house and senate committees on appropriations are both committed to this goal . 
with regard to the regular order appropriations bills , the interior and legislative branch conference reports have been signed into law . 
the homeland security conference concluded just this morning , and we expect to file a conference report today . 
the senate has now passed eight appropriations bills , and the ninth is expected to be completed by early next week . 
we have begun giving notional allocations to energy and water , foreign operations , science , justice , state and commerce and agriculture subcommittees so they can begin negotiating . 
we are making very good progress . 
this continuing resolution is an important step toward achieving our goal of restoring regular order to the congressional appropriations process . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
