mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
i rise , after listening to the last two or three speakers , because we are short of energy in this country because we have locked up our energy . 
we are short of energy in this country because we have built no refineries to process the oil that we purchase now from third world countries . 
we can not shut down supply ; we can not shut down our capacity or not increase our capacity with the growing need and not have high prices . 
when we restrict supply , we give the power to the big companies . 
when we bring on supply , our market system works , and prices will come down ; but then we have to have , we have to have the refineries to refine it . 
to not pass this bill today is a tragedy . 
i am going to support this rule , even though my amendment that i think was very important to open up supply was not allowed to be a part of it . 
i want to tell my colleagues , natural gas is an issue that this congress has to deal with . 
we have to deal with the supply of oil and gas both . 
we have to deal with having the capacity to process and provide the products . 
this winter , home heating oil is going to be in very short supply . 
in some markets , it will be way higher than others because it is not an even distribution system . 
but natural gas is the one thing that we have to deal with this fall , in my view , because natural gas has not doubled ; it is 700 percent more . 
we are going to endanger home heating . 
we are going to endanger major industries who are natural gas-intensive . 
we have companies who use it . 
polymers , plastics , petrochemicals , fertilizers use natural gas as an ingredient and as a fuel . 
they can not afford $ 14 and $ 15 natural gas . 
they will leave american shores . 
my brick companies are closing down until it gets less costly . 
the last plant they are shutting down because they can not properly make glass and compete with these natural gas prices . 
it is the one we have where we can be totally self-sufficient in this country on the clean fuel natural gas that fuels our industry , heats our homes , heats our schools , heats our hospitals . 
folks , let us not go home this fall until we deal with natural gas . 
