mr. speaker , hurricane katrina may not only have been one of the most destructive natural disasters in our nation 's history , the argument could be made that katrina was the perfect storm in exposing our nation 's vulnerabilities in supplying oil and gas to meet our energy needs . 
there is absolutely no doubt that our country must become energy independent . 
today we rely on foreign sources of oil to supply 60 percent of our energy needs . 
we are at the mercy of the oil producing export countries . 
disruption in our energy supply -- whether through opec polices to reduce production , disruption in domestic drilling and shipping caused by hurricanes , or limited refining capacity -- energy security is a matter of national security . 
i understand the serious impact that rising fuel prices have on the everyday lives of people and the strength of our economy . 
it is an issue which impacts everyone who drives or uses oil and every sector of our economy . 
we must find ways to improve conservation of oil resources , increase domestic production and oil refining capacity . 
progress also needs to be made in developing alternative fuels as well as making the machines we use more energy efficient . 
the argument has been made that our nation 's ability to refine both imported and domestic sources of oil is limited because no new oil refineries have opened in the united states in almost 30 years . 
additionally , just under half our refinery capacity or 47 percent is concentrated in the gulf of mexico . 
if every refinery is operating at full capacity , 17 million barrels per day are refined , however , demand averages at 21 million barrels a day . 
the legislation before the house today , h.r. 3893 , the gasoline for america 's security act of 2005 , attempts to increase refining capacity through provisions to encourage new refinery construction and streamline the regulatory path to build new refineries , among other provisions . 
mr. speaker , i am giving the benefit of the doubt to chairman barton and the energy and commerce committee on this bill and i will vote for it , albeit reluctantly , to help move the process forward . 
but i believe we need more debate , especially on the issue of making certain we maintain strong environmental protections for clean air and water and endangered species when siting refineries , and i am hopeful that the house can negotiate with the senate to come up with a more balanced bill . 
i am glad to see that the provisions modifying the new source review program and the new source performance standards programs , which would reduce protections against pollutants , were removed from the final version of the bill . 
i also am pleased that the bill authorizes the president to have a refinery permitted , constructed and operated for the sole consumption of the united states armed forces . 
it is absolutely necessary that we do everything possible to ensure that our ability to defend our citizens is inhibited by a simple lack of oil and refined gas . 
if our nation ever hopes to reduce its dependence on imported oil , we also must increase automobile fuel economy standards . 
i was very disappointed that the rules committee failed to make in order an amendment to h.r. 3893 to increase corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards . 
i enclose for the record a copy of the text of the letter i signed with representatives boehlert , shays , gilchrest and others to the rules committee . 
we must have fuel efficient automobiles that do not waste gasoline . 
i support boosting cafe standards for u.s. auto makers to 33 mpg over 10 years ( by 2015 ) , consistent with the findings of the national academy of sciences , in order to save 10 percent of the gasoline the nation would otherwise consume by 2015 . 
the current standard of i am also disappointed that , although the bill establishes a program to encourage the use of carpooling and vanpooling to save energy , there is absolutely no mention of telework . 
ridesharing is important , but telework is the most efficient way to reduce gasoline consumption and reduce pollutants by taking commuters off the roads and allowing them to work at home or at a telework center close to home . 
allowing all eligible federal employees to telework is the law of the land . 
why is telework not included in this bill ? 
i also believe we must have tough penalties on price gouging . 
i am very concerned when i hear from my constituents who do n't understand how the price of gasoline at the pump can jump 25 cents in one day or how the same brand of gasoline can be selling at widely different prices at gas stations only a few miles apart . 
then we hear the major oil companies reporting record profits while consumers deal with skyrocketing gas prices . 
this is far from a perfect bill . 
in the wake of the perfect storm that katrina brought to our nation , we need to take action to both increase our energy supply and to become more energy and fuel efficient . 
congress has an opportunity to craft a fair and balanced bill . 
i hope the legislation that is brought to the house after conference with the senate is a bill that protects consumers , protects the environment and moves our nation to energy efficiency and is a final bill that i can support . 
dear mr . 
chairman : we are writing to urge that the rules committee make in order congressman boehlert 's amendment to increase corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards when it reports out a rule for the consideration of h.r. 3893 , the `` gasoline for america 's security act of 2005. '' the amendment , a version of which has been made in order in each of the last three energy bill debates in the house , is germane to h.r. 3893 . 
indeed , it is difficult to see how the house could be seen to have a complete debate on the availability of gasoline without a discussion of fuel economy standards . 
in the wake of hurricane katrina and $ 3 per gallon gasoline prices , more americans are becoming aware of the need to address the demand , as well as the supply side of our gasoline crisis -- to protect their own family pocketbooks , as well as to enhance the nation 's energy security . 
indeed one recent poll found that 86 percent of americans favor higher fuel economy standards , more than the percentage favoring any other approach to the current energy pinch . 
at this time the transportation sector is the nation 's single largest consumer of oil , yet it is also the only sector of the economy that is less fuel efficient than it was 20 years ago . 
a debate on gasoline needs to include measures that will address that fact , especially when the national academy of sciences concluded four years ago that the technology exists to accomplish fuel economy goals cost-effectively and safely . 
and the study did not even consider three important technologies that automakers have since begun to introduce in the marketplace that can achieve even greater fuel economies : hybrid engine technologies , clean diesel technologies and high-strength , lightweight composites and steels . 
the house needs and deserves to have a discrete debate on fuel economy , just as it has had during the debate on past energy bills . 
the issue must not get lost in disputes about other aspects of h.r. 3893 , which deals with a wide variety of legal and regulatory issues . 
we urge you to allow a clear , full and open debate on the single measure that would do the most to reduce the u.s. demand for oil . 
sincerely , -- -- -- 