i agree with the gentleman 100 percent . 
the study that the gentleman just referenced , the economic policy institute , the 30-something group is all about third-party validators . 
this is not the meek or ryan or delahunt or pallone institute . 
this is the economic policy group , a nonpartisan economic study group saying that the tax cuts were bogus . 
a couple of our friends on the other side said , well , the projected budget is going to be $ 100 billion or $ 80 billion less than what they thought it was going to be because the tax cuts are actually working . 
what they fail to tell you is that a loophole has been closed . 
it sunsetted out last year . 
so there was a tax put on a small business , people , that raised money to the tune of $ 80 billion . 
do not come in and mislead the american people . 
it is not the tax cuts that are working . 
the tax cuts are not working . 
go ask the workers at delphi if the tax cuts are working . 
go ask the workers whose wages have been stagnant the last 30 years if the tax cuts are working . 
they want to talk about we want to raise taxes . 
they are spending money on the country 's credit card , as my good friend has said . 
real quick , i just want to clean this up . 
the two bills i want our friends , other members , to go see , go to thomas.gov . 
h.r. 1 in the 108th congress was the prescription drug bill which we were lied to about the original price , was supposed to be $ 400 billion . 
then they came back months later and said it was $ 700 billion , no controls on the price . 
go to the 108th congress , h.r. 1 . 
then go in the 109th congress , thomas.gov , h.r. 3893 , our energy bill . 
our friends that are so concerned with reining in spending , the republican house passed a bill that has given billions of dollars to the oil companies , and bp 's profits today came out 34 percent higher this quarter . 
i mean , give us a break . 
the rhetoric is done . 
you try to dust off the rhetoric from the 1980s and put it in today 's society , and it just does not work because it just does not make any sense . 
if you can hear and see and think , you know what they are saying on the other side is not making sense . 
what the democratic proposal is is to balance the budget ; is to implement paygo , which means if you spend money , you have got to pay for it , one way or the other . 
our friends , the republican majority , that started out with this big republican revolution that i think has ended up in a republican devolution , would not pass the paygo rules . 
we have a plan , you go to the house committee on the budget , to balance the budget . 
we retain middle-class tax cuts for working people . 
i am not afraid to stand up and say i am going to ask bill gates to pay a little more in taxes . 
i am not afraid to say it . 
i do not think that is a bold political move , but the wealthiest people are the only ones in this country who have not been asked to sacrifice in some way to pay for the two or three wars that we have going on and the greatest natural and national disaster this country has ever seen . 
