mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentlewoman for yielding me this time and for her leadership . 
i rise in strong opposition to this very restrictive rule . 
now , we are all touched by the magnitude of the devastation caused by hurricane katrina and hurricane rita in the gulf coast . 
the human and environmental costs of these disasters are unimaginable . 
but as in any catastrophe , there is always somebody waiting in the wings to make a profit off the human misery and suffering . 
today , once again , it is the energy companies . 
this adds insult to injury . 
we just gave them over $ 12.8 billion in subsidies and tax breaks 2 months ago , and now they are back asking for more help . 
why ? 
the top 10 energy companies last year made over $ 125 billion . 
why should the american public be subsidizing these megaprofits ? 
once again , instead of allowing us to take a real stand to address our short-and long-term energy needs , the committee on rules has reported a restrictive rule that rejects consideration of many amendments which would have made this bill much better . 
despite a recent survey indicating that 86 percent , 86 percent of americans favor an increase in fuel economy standards , the committee on rules prevented , prevented consideration of the boehlert-markey amendment which would do just that . 
we were prevented from considering the gas price spike act of 2005 offered as an amendment by the gentleman from ohio ( mr. kucinich ) xz4002270 , the gentleman from new york ( mr. hinchey ) xz4001780 , the gentleman from arizona ( mr. grijalva ) xz4001620 , and myself . 
it would have discouraged price gouging by implementing a windfall tax on oil and gasoline profits . 
and we were also prevented from considering the larson-slaughter amendment which would have put an end , an end to gasoline price discrimination based on location , creating a free market for gasoline dealers . 
our current energy strategy will only further increase our dependence on foreign oil . 
we must break this chain by implementing a strategy of energy independence and defeat this giveaway to the oil industry . 
vote for a new strategy , not more of the same . 
we must oppose this rule and support the stupak substitute . 
