mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of the stupak-boucher-bishop-schwartz-barrow substitute amendment , and i want to thank the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak ) xz4003910 for his leadership on this issue of national importance . 
mr. speaker , americans across the country are deeply concerned about the skyrocketing costs of gasoline , and rightly so . 
this year , the average american family will pay nearly $ 4 , 500 to meet their energy needs . 
this is 19 percent more than last year . 
contributing to these costs , as we all know , is the dramatic increase in the price of gasoline . 
in the midst of hurricane katrina , gas refiners were selling a barrel of gasoline for 434 percent more than a barrel was selling exactly 1 year ago . 
these steep costs make it difficult for hardworking americans to meet their financial obligations , and they underscore the reality that the president and the majority party in congress have failed to enact policies to protect american consumers from price gouging and reduce the nation 's overall dependence on gasoline and oil . 
the american public is concerned , and they are concerned that at the same time that oil refiners ' profits are more than tripled over the last year , consumers are paying record high gas prices . 
they are concerned because after a double-digit increase in home heating costs last year , prices are expected to increase at even higher rates this winter . 
they are concerned that the cost of gasoline is rising faster than the actual price of crude oil . 
mr. speaker , they are concerned that neither the white house nor the republican congress has put forward a plan to address this problem . 
the bill before us is yet another giveaway , not a plan . 
behind the rhetoric is an empty bill that favors the oil industry while failing to take meaningful action to reduce prices for consumers . 
in fact , it makes matters worse . 
it ignores the harsh realities of price gouging at the pump by weakening our ability to crack down on those trying to manipulate the market for their own profit . 
and it eliminates long-standing production and refining standards that safeguard the environment and the public 's health . 
my colleagues , we have the opportunity to answer the concerns of everyday americans and to promote our nation 's and our families ' security and economic well-being . 
to meet this goal , we must make clear that price gouging and profiteering is unacceptable and will be met with stiff penalties . 
we must reduce our reliance on foreign oil . 
we must find better , more efficient ways to use traditional energy sources . 
and must help bring to market more affordable , reliable , and cleaner energy sources . 
and , the plan we are offering in the substitute amendment today will help to meet these goals . 
it will provide relief at the pump by bolstering our ability to punish oil companies and refiners who wrongly ratchet up the cost of their product . 
our plan will stop price gouging , not just for gasoline , but for natural gas , home hearing oil , and propane . 
and our plan will improve our nation 's energy security through the establishment of a strategic refining reserve so that we are never again are in the position of releasing crude oil from our emergency reserves , but unable to refine it and bring it to market . 
do not be fooled by the title of this bill , vote for this substitute . 
enact a plan that will deliver real relief to the american people . 
