mr. speaker , today i rise in opposition to the anti-public health , anti-consumer `` gas act. '' the legislation is an insult to the american public which needs real relief , but this is an attack on our public health ; and it is a giveaway to corporate america . 
their interests will harm , in my opinion , 5.5 million latinos that live within 10 miles of coal-powered plants and the 68 percent of all african americans that live within 30 miles of a coal-powered plant . 
these changes will increase the risk of disease to schoolchildren in texas who are exposed right now to 43.4 million tons of toxic pollutants in just 1 year because of almost 140 nearby industrial facilities . 
these changes will increase the risk of disease to over 207 , 000 children who go to schools within a 2-mile radius of a chemical plant or refinery in texas . 
these changes will not help construct new refineries or guarantee an increase in refinery capacity and will do nothing to lower the cost of gasoline . 
this is a washington bill drafted on k street by those lobbyists and is an attack on our public health . 
no state air boards were consulted , no mayors , no city managers , no land use planners , no attorneys general , not even mine from california . 
there is a reason why the bill is opposed by the national association of counties , the national league of cities , and nine attorneys general . 
the local air pollution program and control officers , the south coast air quality management district , the american lung association , and many others are in opposition to this bill . 
it is time that the administration and the republican leadership learn that public health and the environment and the voices of our communities are not exploitable commodities . 
i will support the democratic alternative which protects public health , protects consumers , and secures our refineries in times of emergency . 
i will not support the underlying legislation which gives americans a false sense of hope and security . 
i urge my colleagues to join me in opposition . 
america deserves better . 
