mr. speaker , i rise in support of the rule and the underlying bill and commend chairman barton for his exceptional and timely work on this legislation . 
but i also rise , mr. speaker , to say , while we respond to the energy crisis that was revealed by hurricane katrina , it is also vital that we respond to the fiscal crisis that was laid bare by the hurricane as well . 
for what began as a hurricane of nature very quickly became a hurricane of spending here on capitol hill : $ 60 billion appropriated in 6 days , paid for by simply adding to the national debt . 
now , some of us thought we should pay for the big cost of hurricane katrina by cutting big government ; and this week , with the leadership of president george w. bush and the leadership of the republican majority in congress , we are beginning to do just that . 
last night , speaker hastert unveiled a bold plan to cut billions of dollars from every branch of government to offset the extraordinary cost of hurricane katrina and its aftermath . 
and while the details take shape that would save tens of billions of dollars through an across-the-board spending cut ; through additional entitlement savings ; through a presidential recision package , the first time in this administration ; by reopening the budget act with a budget act amendment , the first time congress has done that since 1977 ; and by ending nearly 100 outdated federal programs , we are beginning that process as well . 
so i rise today to say on behalf of house conservatives we are pleased , but not content . 
we are encouraged , but not satisfied . 
for while the debate has been difficult at times , the work of cutting government spending to offset the extraordinary cost of hurricane katrina will be harder still . 
with more hurricane spending right around the corner , i rise humbly to challenge my colleagues in the house and , mr. speaker , i rise to challenge my colleagues in the united states senate to be strong and courageous and do the work . 
let us have the courage to make the tough choices , to find the means to pay for the cost of hurricane katrina and its aftermath through reductions in government spending . 
let us do the work of rebuilding our gulf coast with the compassion and the fiscal discipline that the american people expect from a republican congress . 
