mr. speaker , i submit the following exchange of letters for the record . 
house of representatives , committee on the judiciary , washington , dc , october 5 , 2005 . 
dear chairman barton : on september 28 , 2005 , the committee on energy and commerce ordered reported h.r. 3893 , the `` gasoline for america 's security act of 2005. '' in recognition of the desire to expedite floor consideration of h.r. 3893 , the committee on the judiciary hereby waives any consideration of the bill . 
several sections of h.r. 3893 contain matters within the committee on the judiciary 's rule x jurisdiction . 
a summary of principal provisions within the committee on the judiciary 's jurisdiction follows . 
section 102 ( e ) grants original and exclusive federal court jurisdiction to adjudicate civil actions filed under this section . 
section 202 ( e ) grants original and exclusive federal court jurisdiction to adjudicate civil actions filed under this section . 
these matters fall within the committee on the judiciary 's jurisdiction under rule x ( 1 ) ( l ) ( 1 ) ( `` the judiciary and judicial proceedings , civil and criminal '' ) . 
section 605 ( f ) grants members of the `` commission for the deployment of the hydrogen economy , '' as creted under title vi of the bill , the authority to issue subpoenas without requesting the assistance of the attorney general . 
this matter falls within the committee on the judiciary 's jurisdiction under rule x ( 1 ) ( l ) ( 1 ) ( `` the judiciary and judicial proceedings , civil and criminal '' ) . 
the committee on the judiciary agrees to waive any formal consideration of the bill with the understanding that its jurisdiction over these and other provisions contained in the legislation is no way altered or diminished . 
this waiver is further conditioned upon the understanding between our committees that there are no provisions contained in h.r. 3893 that could be construed or interpreted to alter , modify , or to have any effect on any laws or regulations pertaining to any fuel additive , including ethanol and mtbe . 
the committee on the judiciary also reserves the right to seek appointment to any house-senate conference on this legislation . 
i would appreciate your including this letter in the congressional record during consideration of h.r. 3893 on the house floor . 
thank you for your attention to these matters . 
sincerely , f . 
james sensenbrenner , jr. , house of representatives , committee on energy and commerce , washington , dc , october 4 , 2005 . 
dear chairman sensenbrenner : i write in regards to h.r. 3893 , gasoline for america 's security act of 2005 . 
while the committee on the judiciary did not receive a referral of the bill upon introduction , i appreciate your willingness not to seek a referral on h.r. 3893 . 
i agree that your decision to forego action on the bill will not prejudice the committee on the judiciary with respect to its jurisdictional prerogatives on this or future legislation . 
further , knowing of your interest in the debate surrounding fuel additive liability , nothing in h.r. 3893 should be construed or interpreted to alter , modify , or to have any effect on any laws or regulations pertaining to any additive , including ethanol and mtbe . 
i will include our exchange of letters in the committee 's report on h.r. 3893 , and i look forward to working with you as we prepare to pass this important energy legislation for the american people . 
sincerely , joe barton , 