mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i would like to make an observation to the chairman at the outset . 
mr. chairman , had we had hearings on this bill , perhaps your questions could have been answered . 
but your side decided not to have any hearings , not to explore the facts . 
your side decided to go ahead , in my opinion , for political purposes . 
i do not question your motives , because my understanding is you were acting under instructions , and we all understand that . 
mr. speaker , the american people are being pummeled at the pump by high gas prices , and they are being told to brace themselves for record heating costs this winter . 
and what is this house majority doing to reduce the consumers ' pain ? 
nothing . 
let us be clear : this bill is not a panacea ; it is not even a solution or a plan . 
but do not take my word for it , just listen to the republican chairman of the house committee on science , the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 . 
in a letter that he sent today , after the committee on rules reported the manager 's amendment late last night , the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 wrote in a dear colleague : `` please join me in voting no on h.r. 3893 , which will increase the deficit , harm the environment , undermine the states , and give charity to the oil companies while doing virtually nothing to help consumers. '' chairman boehlert 's remarks . 
mr. speaker , it is clear that this republican majority is exploiting the disruption to our nation 's refining capacity caused by hurricane katrina and rita to push many of the same provisions that they could not pass in the energy policy act we passed in july . 
this republican bill , for example , would create a fund that would pay oil companies if they are sued , even if they lose in court . 
it would enable cities with dirty air to delay meeting clean air requirements , and it would preempt state and local zoning regulations related to the siting of refineries . 
what do these provisions have to do with reducing gas prices today ? 
in sharp contrast , the democratic substitute , sponsored by the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak ) xz4003910 and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher ) xz4000430 would put some bite in the federal trade commission 's bark . 
it would give the ftc explicit authority to stop price gouging , not just for gasoline and diesel fuels , but for natural gas home heating oil and propane as well . 
it provides for enhanced penalties for price gouging , explicitly outlaws market manipulation , substitute enron activities , if you will , and empowers state attorneys general to enforce the federal law . 
furthermore , mr. speaker , the substitute would establish a strategic refinery reserve . 
the fact is our national security and economic strength are susceptible to private industry decisions that are motivated primarily by profit , but not by national security issues . 
this congress has a duty to address this vulnerability . 
i urge my colleagues to vote for this substantive substitute , and i urge further , that if the substitute passes , maybe vote for the bill ; but if it does not pass , to vote against this bad bill , which is bad for the consumers of our country . 
