mr. speaker , these are very hard times for energy consumers -- from people on fixed incomes filling up their tanks to multi-billion dollar chemical companies facing soaring natural gas feedstock costs . 
i think we did a good job with the energy bill , which can not provide immediate relief , but will allow prices to stabilize in the future and to become more affordable over time . 
if the global market gives us $ 60 per barrel oil , we are going to pay a lot for gas . 
people say there is no global spare oil capacity . 
well , there is a lot here in the u.s. but we are n't allowed to use it -- that is why i support expanded oil and gas production offshore in the ocs . 
limited refining capacity is leading to higher prices , but it is not the refiners fault . 
we have 12 refining companies that make over 500 , 000 barrels per day . 
that is more competitive than the software operating system industry , the airline industry , the semiconductor industry , and many others . 
in the refining business , historical profits are well below average -- that 's why no one invested in expansion until recently , when margins improved . 
throughout this process , i have been concerned with both parties ' approach to consumer protection on gasoline prices . 
the original refinery bill had no ftc authority to protect consumers , only a study . 
however , i am grateful to chairman barton for making significant improvements to the committee-passed version of this bill . 
the stupak substitute goes even further by expanding refining capacity and applying tougher and clearer consumer protection standards to this bill . 
it is clear that some price increases should be investigated -- especially given price spikes in atlanta that topped $ 6 after hurricane katrina . 
but , i object to singling out the energy industry . 
if we need the ftc to investigate price spikes for gasoline during emergencies , it should have the authority to investigate price increases for any necessity during an emergency . 
we should cover water supplies , financial services , clothing , food , and other things we need to survive in the modern world . 
i also do n't agree with critics of this bill who call it a give-away to the energy industry . 
when the refining industry has historically low returns and lots of pollution control investments to make , there is not much we can do to force them to expand capacity . 
i am particularly grateful to chairman barton for eliminating the new source review reform provisions in the committee-passed version of the bill . 
that language had the potential to hinder our efforts to improve air quality in houston . 
my constituents are extremely concerned with air pollution in our district , and we are working on solutions with the help of both industry and residents . 
the elimination of this provision greatly improves this bill and ensures that it will do no environmental harm to the houston area , which has long struggled to contain air pollution and smog . 
the courts and the epa are working to reform new source review , a highly complex and controversial program , and it is wise for congress to let them address this issue . 
for my part , i am thankful for the chairman accepting my amendment to respond to the crisis that brought us here -- gasoline shortages and prices spikes after hurricane katrina and now rita . 
the amendment added an energy assurance title to the bill to require the department of energy to review , approve , and offer recommendations of the fuel supply segments of state evacuation plans . 
the amendment also specifically authorizes critical energy facilities like refineries to request direct help from the department of energy during a federally declared emergency or disaster . 
it is in the national interest for refineries not to go down , and if they do , to get back up quickly , the department of energy is authorized to provide assistance with generation capacity , water service , critical employees , ensure raw materials can be accessed , and any other necessity . 
neither the base bill nor the stupak amendment is a perfect answer to our problems with refining capacity . 
however , it is clear that the american public is feeling an energy pinch and is looking to congress for action . 
at this time , some amount of positive action is better than no action -- which is why i will ultimately support this bill and encourage my colleagues to do the same . 
