mr. speaker , i would like to address my friends and colleagues . 
we have got a lot of good members on the committee on energy and commerce , and i have great respect for my friends , the gentleman from michigan ( mr. stupak ) xz4003910 and the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher ) xz4000430 , who come here with serious public policy concerns . 
i want to speak on an issue they do not address , in fact , i think they roll back , which i think is critical to addressing the price spike , and that is boutique fuels . 
i will just give an example . 
when i fly back home , i fill up in st . 
louis . 
i fill up my vehicle in st . 
louis , and then i drive across the river to my hometown in collinsville , which is 30 minutes from the st . 
louis airport , and then i drive up to springfield , illinois , which is the northern part of my district , probably 100 , maybe 200 miles separation , i go through three different fuel markets . 
in other words , the unleaded gas i burn in st . 
louis is not allowed to be purchased and bought in illinois , and it is not allowed to be purchased and sold in springfield , even though i am burning that fuel and driving back and forth . 
these environmental regulations on the boutique fuels really make sense . 
what makes it more difficult is that when you have constrained refinery capacity and you have one refinery producing for one area of the country , when that refinery has a disruption or goes down , then there is no way you can get fuel in there unless you waive environmental regulations , which is what the bill allows us to do if there is a natural disaster or hurricane . 
it says we need to move fuel from st . 
louis to springfield , illinois ; mr. president , you can waive those regulations . 
so we should not discount the importance of addressing this boutique fuel . 
boutique fuels , 48 to 58 different fuel brands around our country , will be pared down to six so that we can still meet the needs of the different regions of the country without holding us hostage . 
i thank the chairman for the time . 
