mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , i urge every member to support this amendment which provides meaningful relief for our nation that is facing record gas prices . 
this amendment has support of the minority leader pelosi as well as the ranking member of the energy and commerce committee , congressman dingell . 
i would like to commend them for their support on this important initiative . 
i would also like to thank the gentleman from virginia ( mr. boucher ) xz4000430 for his hard work on the refinery portions of this amendment . 
the results of our efforts have produced a quality product that will benefit all americans . 
i would also like to recognize congressmen bishop , barrow and etheridge and congresswomen herseth and schwartz for their valued input on this legislation . 
even before the devastation caused by hurricane katrina , skyrocketing oil and gasoline prices were taxing american families and burdening our nation 's economy , with notable exceptions of the oil and gas industry which continued to rack up record profits . 
following katrina , gas prices in some states reached $ 6 per gallon , deepening suspicion of the oil industry profiteering . 
our amendment would ensure that the president has the tools needed to adequately respond to any energy emergency and prohibits price gouging on all petroleum products with a priority on refineries and big oil . 
whether it is gasoline or natural gas , the problem lies right here at the refinery level , with a 255 percent increase in the last 12 months alone . 
here is a 1995 memo from the american petroleum industry , and i quote . 
`` a senior analyst , at the recent american petroleum energy convention , warned that if the u.s. petroleum industry does not refine or reduce its refining capacity , it will never see any substantial increase in refining margins. '' so since 1995 , since this memo , they have closed 30 refineries . 
this conclusion is also backed up by the gao , government accountability office , which said in 2004 that by closing refineries , they were able to drive up to those exorbitant prices we are paying today at the pump . 
currently , there are only 28 states that have laws on the books that define price gouging and have enforcement mechanisms to go after those ripping off consumers . 
at the federal level , there is no oversight to protect consumers from this predatory pricing , gouging or market manipulation . 
we need to pass this amendment today . 
no american should have to pay too much for gas because the oil companies are rigging prices . 
our amendment will give the president authority to take immediate action in the face of energy crisis by declaring a national energy emergency . 
it will provide the federal trade commission with new authority to investigate and prosecute those that engage in predatory pricing , from oil companies on down to gas stations , with the emphasis on those who profit the most . 
this includes price gouging of gasoline and natural gas , home heating oil , propane . 
h.r. 3893 does nothing to address natural gas and propane gas prices , even though gas prices are expected to rise by more than 90 percent as shown in today 's usa today . 
staying warm is to cost up to 90 percent more . 
that is natural gas . 
and this bill does not even address it . 
our amendment also empowers the federal government to impose tough civil penalties of up to triple damage on all excess profits on companies that have cheated consumers . 
the base bill provides no additional penalties for those who engage in price gouging . 
our amendment will also provide for relief to consumers paying skyrocketing energy and transportation costs and increase funding for the low-income home energy assistance program through fines from price-gouging companies . 
it would also put in place new consumer protections to prevent market manipulation and ensure greater transparency in the cost of a gallon of gas . 
the base bill provides no transparency . 
why is it , we in america , no one can tell us what does it cost for a gallon of gas ? 
what does it cost for a cubic foot of natural gas ? 
why do they not want us to know how they are manipulating the market , gouging the american consumer ? 
in the wake of hurricane katrina , americans are pulling together , donating to relief organizations and giving their time to help the people of the gulf coast recover . 
that is how american people react when they see their fellow citizens in need . 
unfortunately , some people have looked at hurricane katrina not as a chance to give but as an opportunity to profit . 
some have decided to take advantage of this terrible tragedy and line their own pockets by gouging the american people at the gas pump . 
as eight governors wrote to us in congress urging passage of our legislation , they stated , and i quote , `` to price gouge consumers under normal circumstances is dishonest enough . 
but to take money off from the severe misfortune of others is downright immoral. '' skyrocketing oil and gas prices are hurting the american consumer as well as our economy . 
sadly , the majority bill does nothing to crack down on those who are manipulating the market and price gouging . 
the stupak-boucher amendment provides the kind of relief from high gas and energy prices that consumers deserve . 
our amendment will protect all consumers from unfair energy and gas prices and punish those who think that a time of a national tragedy is the right time to rob the american people of their hard-earned money . 
i urge a `` yes '' vote on our amendment . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
