mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to h.r. 3893 . 
this bill is a laundry list of giveaways to the oil industry , one of the most profitable industries in america and one that is right now gouging american consumers . 
big oil and its supporters are exploiting the tragedy and human suffering caused by hurricane katrina to ram through congress ideas so bad they were rejected just 2 months ago when congress last approved a laundry list of giveaways to the oil industry . 
for example , the bill guts key environmental and human health protections of the clean air act by limiting the states ability to use specialized blends of gasoline to achieve their clean air goals , and permitting up-wind states to continue to send pollution downwind . 
the result : more dirty air at higher emissions rates for a longer period of time . 
supporters of this bill will tell you that environmental regulations make it impossible to build or expand refineries . 
but that simply is not true . 
environmental regulations are not the problem . 
the truth is that the oil industry 's profits will decline if the capacity is increased , so they have not really tried to keep up with demand . 
the oil companies are making billions these days . 
they do not need another subsidy . 
moreover , there are no offsets for subsidies to big oil in this bill . 
apparently , the republican operation offset applies only to programs that help poor people , like medicaid and food stamps , and not to oil industry subsidies . 
i am pleased that the manager 's amendment appropriately modified the provision requiring the president to designate three closed military bases for construction of a refinery against the will of the local community . 
i am also pleased that the chairman deleted the section of the bill that eviscerated the clean air act 's new source review program . 
but these welcome programs do not make the underlying bill a good one . 
i believe that we should act to increase refinery capacity , and that the stupak-boucher amendment is the right approach . 
let us reject this bill and move forward on a better solution to our energy crisis . 
