mr. speaker , more than ever in the wake of the recent hurricanes , congress and the american people are focused on meeting our energy needs . 
whether it 's the rise in gas prices at the pump or the anticipation of expensive home heating bills this winter , all americans are feeling the pinch . 
we have already signed into law an energy bill that sought to expand domestic production of oil and other sources of energy , but we have done very little to reduce demand . 
yet again , we are considering a bill that will only address the supply end of the equation . 
even if increasing refinery capacity were to positively affect gasoline prices , as the the gasoline for america 's security act of 2005 ( h.r. 3893 ) purports , it would do so at the expense of our environment and public health , and by trumping state law . 
while i am pleased that the manager 's amendment strikes changes to the `` new source review '' program , provisions remain that ill hurt taxpayers , pollute our environment , supersede state law , and give unnecessary payments to the oil companies . 
this bill outlines erroneous solutions to our current energy challenges , and ultimately fails to `` secure '' americans from energy price surges . 
whereas intended to respond to temporary refinery shortages caused by recent hurricanes and to address high gasoline prices , the bill weakens environmental laws and undermines states ' rights by limiting the kinds of cleaner fuels states can require to meet their clean air targets ; federalizing many siting and permitting decisions relating to refineries ; limiting the kinds of diesel fuel that can be required and interfering with the low sulfur diesel rule that was championed by the bush administration ; rewriting the permitting process for refineries to limit environmental reviews without any evidence that current processes are at all a problem ; and enabling cities with harmful levels of ozone air pollutants to delay improving air quality . 
adoption of this bill would constitute a major setback for air quality across the nation . 
the longterm costs for backtracking on important pollution measures will be far greater than the short terms gains from this bill . 
our states have worked aggressively to ensure that improvements are made to air quality and it is our duty to support , not hinder , such efforts . 
instead of only meeting our energy needs by increasing supply , we need to continue to improve conservation methods and our r & amp ; d efforts in renewable sources of energy like wind and solar power . 
and , we must take a hard look at automotives , from creating additional consumer incentives for domestic production and purchase of efficient hybrid-electric vehicles to the possibility of increasing fuel economy standards , so cars can go further on a tank of gas . 
a diversified approach , based on a variety of resources , will truly save consumers money at the pump and help to reduce our dependence on foreign oil . 
the legislation before us today can only hurt our states and our environment and i urge a no vote on this legislation . 
