mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
the gentleman makes a valid point that we have a lot of obese children . 
i think it is actually more like 40 percent in some recent studies i have seen . 
this is a terrible problem , but i urge the members to defeat this amendment . 
it was defeated by voice vote last year , and it should be defeated again this year . 
the gentleman from california ( mr. filner ) xz4001330 also talks about the accountability of the food industry ; but this amendment tells parents that if they are not responsible for their children 's eating , they can become millionaires . 
this amendment manages to exploit children and discourages parents from exercising parental responsibility all at the same time . 
it literally would hold food companies liable when parents buy their kids a six-pack of kid meals every day for 8 years . 
adopting this amendment would turn the personal responsibility in food consumption act into the parent irresponsibility act . 
even the ultra-liberal los angeles times has stated this is wrong , saying in an editorial : `` if kids are chowing down to excess on junk food , are n't their parents responsible for cracking down ? 
and if parents and other grown-ups overindulge , is n't it their problem , not that of the purveyors of fast food ? 
why boost their food bills because of illegal jousting ? 
people should n't get stuffed , but this line of litigation should. '' even our best obesity doctors realize that this amendment is another sad assault on the concept of parental responsibility . 
as dr . 
jana klauer , a fellow at the new york city obesity research center of st . 
luke 's roosevelt hospital has said , `` i just wonder where were the parents when kids were having these mcdonald 's breakfasts every morning . 
were they incapable of pouring a bowl of cereal and some milk ? 
`` let us do what we did last year and defeat this parental irresponsibility amendment by voice vote . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
