mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. speaker , despite their best arguments against free enterprise , personal responsibility and the protection of lawful commerce , critics fail to provide an alternative solution to the problem without compromising our liberties and second amendment rights . 
just as a car is a tool for transportation , an ax is a tool for cutting trees and shrubs , prescription drugs are tools for better health , a firearm is a tool for hunting and self-defense and protection of our citizens . 
any of these tools used in an irresponsible manner and used contrary to their attending purpose can hurt and , yes , even kill others . 
but a gun by itself , mr. speaker , can not commit a crime . 
it takes an individual to use the product illegally and irresponsibly . 
the protection of lawful commerce in arms act is a bill to curb our lawsuit-friendly and , yes , sometimes abusive society and to protect law-abiding citizens from individuals who avoid responsibility and undermine the good faith of our legal system . 
frivolous lawsuits against gun manufacturers threaten the survival of the gun industry , the jobs it creates , and our constitutional right to purchase , keep and bear arms . 
while many cases are dismissed , it only takes one bad ruling to sink a company and to send ripple effects across an entire industry . 
although america 's first gun manufacturer , springfield armory , went out of business in 1968 , we still have to protect america 's remaining law-abiding companies who conduct business in a responsible and in a lawful manner . 
it would be a tragedy for a nation with such a rich and innovative history in manufacturing to have our police and military carry over foreign-engineered firearms . 
we need to protect the american firearm industry . 
we need to restore responsibility and end these frivolous lawsuits . 
mr. speaker , i encourage passage of this rule and passage of the protection of lawful commerce in arms act . 
mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution . 
the previous question was ordered . 
the resolution was agreed to . 
a motion to reconsider was laid on the table . 
