mr. speaker , i certainly appreciate the debate that we are having today on this issue . 
i rise in support of the rule . 
mr. speaker , when drafting the bill of rights to our constitution , our founding fathers guaranteed the right of the people to keep and to bear arms in the second amendment , and for 217 years the second amendment has protected our freedom . 
but for years we have seen a nonstop onslaught of individuals and groups trying to erode this basic right . 
now , unable to accomplish their goals at the ballot box , they are targeting arms makers in the courts for the illegal use of their product . 
their attempt to force u.s. arms producers out of business would have a serious impact not only on our freedoms but on our national security as well . 
let us for a moment just look at three of the companies that are targeted by lawsuits by the antigun fanatics . 
the colt company is a sole provider of the m-16 rifle carried by the men and women of our armed services . 
beretta usa supplies the standard sidearm for all branches of the armed forces and law enforcement agencies across the country . 
the sig arms company manufactures the sidearm carried by the secret service and the navy seals . 
and if these companies are destroyed , where will our military and our law enforcement get the arms that they need to keep our nation safe ? 
from france , perhaps . 
maybe we can buy them from china . 
this is why the pentagon took the extraordinary step in sending a letter to each member of this house urging the passage of this important legislation . 
the aim of these lawsuits is to deny law-abiding americans from exercising their constitutional rights to keep and to bear arms . 
this must be stopped . 
instead , we should severely punish criminals , not law-abiding companies or citizens . 
and if we do not do so , what is next ? 
are we going to sue the louisville slugger company if a criminal hits somebody with a baseball bat ? 
enough is enough . 
it is time for common sense . 
it is time to protect the jobs of the workers of american firms . 
it is time to protect our rights under the second amendment of the constitution , and it is time to ensure that the men and women of the armed services and our law enforcement have access to the best possible firearms to protect our nation . 
