mr. speaker , i rise today to oppose an outrageous provision attached to previously strong legislation . 
i am shocked and disappointed that the majority has chosen to destroy what was an effective , responsible , and bipartisan bill by including an indefensible provision to restrict nonpartisan civic activity of nonprofit organizations . 
this legislation started out as an example of how the legislative process should work . 
the financial services committee reported a bill to reform government sponsored enterprises , gses , and establish an affordable housing fund , ahf . 
the bill would increase home ownership among low-income families , increase investment in housing in low income and economically distressed areas , and in general increase the nation 's supply of affordable housing . 
the bill received broad bipartisan support , reported by a vote of 65-5 . 
it is unfortunate that the majority has chosen to mandate consideration of a bill that includes a provision restricting nonpartisan civic activities of nonprofit organizations , even if they use their own funds to conduct such activities . 
nonprofit organizations ( and any affiliate of the nonprofit ) would be prohibited from engaging in nonpartisan voter registration or get-out-the-vote activities . 
these restrictions would force low-income housing groups and faith-based groups to choose between obtaining funding for low-income housing and using other funds to engage in nonpartisan voter registration and get-out-the-vote activities . 
in my home state of new jersey , organizations like catholic charities provide vital social services to vulnerable people in need , such as food , clothing , counseling , and health services . 
they also routinely hold voter registration drives before elections and provide elderly and disabled voters with transportation to the polls . 
their activities are nonpartisan and play a vital role in ensuring that people are able to vote if they so desire . 
under this legislation , they would no longer be able to fulfill this function . 
this body should not prohibit social service organizations from conducting nonpartisan civic activities . 
the majority protests loudly when its actions are judged to be motivated by a desire to suppress voter turnout and civic participation in urban or low-income areas . 
from the inclusion of this discriminatory provision , it is difficult to reach any other conclusion . 
today this rule blocks an amendment by representative barney frank that would remove this provision . 
it is disheartening to see that , at a time when the majority and the administration claims to support removing barriers for faith-based organizations , this provision has been included to restrict the activities they are permitted to conduct . 
inclusion of the provision has sunk the prospects of passing strong and bipartisan legislation that will help the most vulnerable obtain affordable housing . 
i urge my colleagues to reject this rule . 
