mr. speaker , the problem is , i tell the former speaker from the florida legislature , you do not have the courage of your convictions on your side . 
you are not prepared to put your proposition to a democratic vote on your side . 
mr. speaker , once again this house majority is resorting to heavy-handed tactics that are designed to do one thing only , to achieve a preordained result by shutting down a full and fair debate in this house . 
let me remind my colleagues what the chairman of the rules committee , mr. dreier , said on this floor 12 years ago , in march 1993 : `` frankly , it seems to me that the process of representative government means that a person who represents 600 , 000 people here should have the right to stand up and put forth an amendment and then have it voted down if it is not supportable . 
we are simply asking that we comply with the standard operating rules of this house. '' why will you not do that today ? 
because you do not have the confidence you have the votes . 
again , today , the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier ) xz4001150 and his republican colleagues are violating their own promise to allow free and fair debates . 
it is another stark example of the arrogance of power and the abuse of power . 
this republican majority has blocked mr. frank 's amendment , as well as other democratic amendments , and thus stifled , shut down , democracy and stifled debate . 
the manager 's amendment , among other provisions , will prohibit nonprofit organizations from using their own funds , i tell the gentleman from florida , their own funds , from voter registration drives or get-out-the-vote activities for a period beginning 12 months before a grant application until it is over . 
mr. speaker , it is outrageous that this house would take such an action , any action that would inhibit or prevent anyone from engaging in nonpartisan voter registration , unless , of course , you fear the wrath of the voters in response to your abuse of power . 
let us be clear . 
this provision is nothing more than a transparent attempt to disenfranchise voters who otherwise may not register to vote . 
the gentleman mentioned the catholic conference . 
let me read just two sentences , i hope i have the time to do it : `` proposals that would limit eligible recipients to organizations that have as their primary purpose the provision of affordable housing would effectively prevent catholic dioceses , parishes and catholic charity agencies from participating in affordable housing programs. '' that is the catholic conference of bishops speaking . 
they say it would force catholic agencies , not acorn , would force catholic agencies to choose between participating in affordable housing fund programs , or engaging in constitutionally protected voter registration and lobbying activities with their own funds . 
this is catholic bishops , i tell my friend , speaking . 
these provisions are an outrage , and this process is an outrage . 
as one member of this body complained , once again the vast majority of americans are having their representatives in congress gagged by the closed-rule committee . 
that was the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier ) xz4001150 , the now-chairman of the rules committee . 
this undermines democracy in this the people 's house . 
what a shame . 
