mr. speaker , i include in the record the following letter from catholic charities usa , which strongly opposes the language in the manager 's amendment . 
catholic charities usa , alexandria , va , october 25 , 2005 . 
dear congressman mcgovern : on behalf of catholic charities usa , the national association of catholic social services agencies and institutions serving over seven million people in need every year , i urge you to support h.r. 1461 , the federal housing finance reform act of 2005 , and to oppose amendments that would prevent experienced faith-based and community-based organizations from successfully competing for the proposed affordable housing funds . 
we strongly support the creation of the housing funds and are convinced that this initiative would increase the development of affordable housing , but we have learned that the rules committee will be asked to put in order a managers ' amendment to bar organizations with proven experience in mobilizing community support and resources . 
we applaud efforts to develop additional non-governmental funding resources to support affordable housing efforts that will be cost neutral to the federal budget . 
at the same time , we oppose limiting language that essentially bars non-profits whose mission extends beyond the provision of affordable housing . 
not only our catholic charities agencies , but many religious orders and some parishes , whose missions are serving the poor and vulnerable in their communities , develop and manage very effective affordable housing programs alongside programs that provide food , clothing , counseling , and other health and social services . 
these agencies should not be barred from affordable housing funds simply because their primary purpose goes beyond affordable housing . 
in addition , we oppose amendments that restrain non-profits from receiving these funds if they are engaged in any non-partisan voter registration activities , even if these activities are funded by their own resources . 
one of the strengths of our democratic system has been the almost universal involvement of community-based and religious organizations in encouraging all citizens to register and vote . 
national religious bodies , regional bodies , such as catholic dioceses , and local congregations throughout the country organize voter registration efforts and provide transportation to the polls for isolated seniors and people with disabilities . 
non-profits with expertise in housing should not have to choose between two equally important missions : supporting full participation in our democracy and providing affordable housing . 
while this administration has worked diligently to remove barriers to full participation in federal programs and funding by faith-based organizations , these amendments would bar these very same groups from being considered for this funding while for-profit agencies remain free to engage in these same voter activities . 
we are puzzled and troubled by the double standard being applied to faith-based and non-profit organizations . 
existing limits in h.r. 1461 on activities that qualify for affordable housing funds prevent abuse of this funding . 
in addition , catholic charities agencies routinely sign certifications to receive federal , state , and local government funds that prohibit diversion of program funds for political and lobbying purposes . 
there are multiple vehicles available to ensure that the new affordable housing funds are protected from inappropriate use by grantees . 
the proposed affordable housing fund to be created under h.r. 1461 is sorely needed , especially in the devastated gulf coast region where hundreds of thousands of families have not been able to return to their homes . 
in such challenging times , it would be unfortunate if experienced faith-based organizations and non-profits that have performed laudably in meeting the needs of these survivors would be barred from participation in funding that would help meet critical housing needs . 
sincerely , rev . 
larry snyder , mr. speaker , i yield 3 1/2 minutes to the gentleman from maryland ( mr. hoyer ) xz4001890 . 
