mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
if we had a bill that was a little cleaner , we probably would be dealing with the problems we face with the gses and we would be dealing with a housing program , a new housing program , probably with a different bill . 
i see one attempt is to deal with this problem that we face . 
another attempt is we are deciding that we need more money directed into the housing industry , and of course your building friends like this , too . 
and those are republican allies as well . 
the builders love this because we will pump more money into the market so they can make more profits . 
so it is another government housing project . 
from a market viewpoint , this is not good because we want the money in the market to be allocated purely by the market and not by government direction . 
it is the government direction first from the inflation , the artificial interest rates , and then from the allocation of funds that cause distortion . 
that is what we are dealing with here , the distortion that people are literally frightened about because nobody can even measure the amount of derivatives that are involved with fannie mae and freddie mac . 
people are holding their breath for an accident to happen . 
i see this as an opportunity to talk about the marketplace , why we should move fannie mae and freddie mac into the market . 
a lot of people complained about the problems we had with enron , and we needed that as an excuse to pass a lot more regulation . 
the truth is the market dealt with enron . 
enron was dealt with rather cruelly by the marketplace before the regulators got there . 
what we need to do is not , and especially as republicans and conservatives , talk about a world-class regulator and that it is going to solve all of these problems . 
my argument is if we do not solve the problem of basic underlying inflation distortion of interest rates , allocation of funds through housing programs , as well as this line of credit , believe me , we are not going to solve this problem . 
please vote to strike this line of credit to the treasury . 
as it was stated earlier on this floor , we may have some regulations built into this that may even precipitate the puncturing of the housing bubble . 
that nobody can predict . 
but without addressing the basic flaw in the system that has created this $ 5 trillion worth of debt , believe me , we will not have an answer . 
i urge a `` yes '' vote on this amendment . 
