madam chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
madam chairman , as stated , the purpose of fannie mae and freddie mac , the gses , was to provide liquidity difficult to the market and allow first-time homeowners to get into the market in the first place . 
however , we want to define who those people are , and i think some things we can agree on : those people who are making $ 200 , 000 and who want to expand and go up to larger houses should not be the ones that we define as lower-income individuals . 
the statistics also show that came before our committee that even if we put this into place , the differential on mortgage rates would account for around $ 60 to $ 70 per mortgage . 
so if you are buying that $ 600 , 000 house and paying $ 3 , 000 or $ 3 , 300 a month , even if this bill were to pass , you would only see your savings of around $ 60 or $ 70 . 
i think the focus of congress should be what it was when fannie and freddie were first set up , and that is to help those people get into their very first home . 
we can do that best by limiting their function to what it was prior to this amendment in the committee , and that is to focus on first-time home buyers in every state of the union to be able to buy that first home , people of low and modest means who need the assistance of a government-backed program such as fannie and freddie to be able to know that there is a program there that allows them to get into that loan . 
we can allow the other market , which is already in place , which has been functioning properly , where there is no evidence whatsoever to come before our committee that says there was a need to expand in this area , to continue to provide the financing for people who are at the upper-income levels of $ 200 , 000 and the like to be able to buy those homes . 
madam chairman , i believe the best thing in mind is to make sure we remain in place the system that allows first-time home buyers the ability to get into their homes . 
by voting `` yes '' on this amendment , we be will be able to do that . 
