mr. chairman , as a member of the committee on financial services , i am shocked and disappointed in the result of what up until now has been a true bipartisan policy-making effort . 
we in this committee this past may passed a bill , h.r. 1461 , by a vote of 65-5 . 
there was true bipartisanship . 
in fact , just yesterday i was talking about how the committee was working collectively together and there was really bipartisanship and we would come up with a bill that we could agree upon . 
how wrong , how wrong i am . 
unfortunately , the republican study committee got involved and has pushed for an unjust and unnecessary amendment that restricts nonprofits that do not have housing as their primary purpose or engage in nonpartisan voter registration or education programs from receiving funds and grants . 
just look at it . 
i look at my district . 
my predecessor at allen ame is known for developing public-private housing that is affordable to people , and they would not be able to participate . 
look at what would be left out with this ridiculous amendment . 
furthermore , if you read this amendment , it clearly states in its language that the restrictions for not-for-profits are not the same restrictions as for-profits . 
i wonder if for-profits can engage in whatever they want to and still be able to participate in these fundings , but not-for-profits would not . 
it seems to me there is a lot of talk , talk about democracy ; but we truly do not want democracy . 
we are trying to lock out a whole group of people from having the opportunity to vote . 
when we look at the numbers of people who come out to vote , the numbers are far less than the percentages any place else . 
we should be doing everything in our power to encourage people to come out to vote . 
i wonder why the republicans are doing this . 
for if they feel so strong and righteous about their manager 's amendment , they surely would have allowed the frank amendment which would have stripped this destructive language before a vote . 
they did not do this because they are afraid their own republican members that support the cdcs and faith-based affordable housing programs would vote in favor of the frank amendment . 
there is no democracy for the republican caucus . 
this was an excellent bill that the radical right wing of the republican caucus has destroyed . 
