mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. chairman , i have noticed a certain level of discomfort on some of my friends on the republican side and some of my not so good friends on the republican side . 
so i want to be very generous and ease their discomfort . 
there are people who are not happy with everything in the manager 's amendment . 
a lot of what is in the manager 's amendment a lot of us like , the preference for the gulf areas , some of the restrictions on what people do with the use of funds . 
there are three small provisions in the manager 's amendment that are controversial . 
the one that says no faith-based groups can go in there , the principal purpose ; and the one that says nonpartisan voter registration and nonpartisan get out the vote are not possible . 
so i want to tell people this : if the manager 's amendment is defeated , i will offer as the recommittal motion the exact manager 's amendment minus those three specifics . 
so if they like the manager 's amendment but do not want to keep the catholic church out of affordable housing , do not want to have the problem that the gentlewoman from ohio ( ms. pryce ) xz4003270 mentioned where they can not take old people to the polls , and do not want to restrict nonpartisan voter registration , if the manager 's amendment is defeated , everything except those three things that were in the manager 's amendment will be in the recommit . 
and as proof of that , i have given a copy of what the recommit would then be over to the republican side . 
they can look it up , as casey stengel used to say . 
they will be able to see that they can then carefully and in good conscience vote against the manager 's amendment and then vote for the recommit because it will be their amendment ; so they will get permission to vote for the recommit , and they will get everything in the manager 's amendment except the one thing that keeps out faith-based , restricting it to people whose primary purpose is here , and the nonpartisan restriction on voter registration . 
all the other restrictions and everything else will be in it . 
so do not worry . 
i am making their life easier . 
