mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i rise in support of h.r. 1751 , the secure access to justice and court protection act of 2005 . 
violent attacks and intimidation against courthouse personnel and law enforcement officers present a threat to the integrity of the justice system that congress has a duty to confront . 
the murder of family members of united states district judge joan lefkow , the brutal slayings of judge rowland barnes , his court reporter , his deputy sheriff , and a federal officer in atlanta , and the cold-blooded shootings outside the tyler , texas , courthouse all underscore the need to provide better protection for judges , courthouse personnel , witnesses , law enforcement and their family members . 
this bill is an important bipartisan measure introduced by the gentleman from texas ( mr. gohmert ) xz4006510 and the gentleman from new york ( mr. weiner ) xz4004260 . 
it will help address the problem of violence in and around our nation 's courthouses . 
statistics show that aggravated assaults against police officers are a serious national problem . 
according to the bureau of justice statistics , 52 law enforcement officers were killed in the united states in 2002 and 56 were killed in 2001 . 
from 1994 through 2003 a total of 616 law enforcement officers were feloniously killed in the line of duty . 
approximately 100 of these officers were murdered after being entrapped or ambushed by their killers . 
these attacks are simply unacceptable . 
the lives of judicial personnel are also at great risk . 
according to the administrative office of the united states courts , federal judges receive nearly 700 threats a year and several federal judges require security personnel to protect them and their families from terrorist associates , violent gangs , drug organizations and disgruntled litigants . 
the intimidation of judges directly assaults the impartial administration of justice our constitution demands . 
court witnesses are also at risk . 
threats and intimidation toward witnesses continue to grow , particularly at the state and local level . 
in 1996 , a witness intimidation study by the justice department included that witness intimidation is a pervasive and insidious problem . 
no part of the country is spared and no witness can feel entirely free or safe . 
prosecutors interviewed in this study estimated that witness intimidation occurs in 75 to 100 percent of the violent crimes committed in some gang-dominated neighborhoods . 
this bill passed the committee on the judiciary by an overwhelming vote of 26-5 . 
the legislation enhances criminal penalties for assaults and the killing of federal , state and local judges , witnesses , law enforcement officers , courthouse personnel and their family members . 
it provides grants to state and local courts to improve security services and improves the ability of the united states marshals to protect the federal judiciary . 
the bill also prohibits public disclosure , on the internet and other public sources , of personal information about judges , law enforcement , victims and witnesses to protect federal judges and prosecutors from organized efforts to harass and intimidate them through false filings of liens and other encumbrances against their property and improves coordination between the marshals and the federal judges . 
the bill also contains vital security measures for federal prosecutors handling dangerous trials against terrorists , drug organizations , and other organized crime figures . 
finally , the bill incorporates key provisions of the peace officer justice act , legislation introduced by the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier ) xz4001150 , to bring justice to those who murder law enforcement personnel and flee to foreign nations to escape prosecution and justice in this country . 
the bill is supported by those on the front lines of our criminal justice system and is backed by the conference of chief justices and the conference of state court administrators ; the federal bar association ; the federal criminal investigators association ; and the fraternal order of police ; the national association of assistant u.s. attorneys ; the international union of police associations afl-cio ; the major county sheriffs ' association ; the national law enforcement council ; the national sheriffs ' association ; the national troopers coalition ; the international association of campus law enforcement administrators ; and the american federation of state , county and municipal employees . 
when judges , prosecutors , law enforcement and courthouse personnel speak in a clear and unanimous voice , we have a duty to listen and to act to give their members the tools and resources necessary for their protection . 
mr. chairman , congress has an obligation to ensure that america 's courts and the brave men and women of law enforcement render justice without fear of assault or retaliation . 
judges , witnesses , courthouse personnel , and law enforcement officers must operate without fear in order to administer the law without bias . 
i urge my colleagues to strengthen the integrity of america 's justice system and the security of court and law enforcement personnel by supporting this vital and bipartisan legislation . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
