mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
first , mr. chairman , i want to thank chairman sensenbrenner and mr. gohmert xz4006510 for bringing this underlying bill to the floor , h.r. 1751 . 
my amendment specifically addresses the problem of violence in and around federal courthouses . 
the amendment authorizes any federal judge , magistrate , united states attorney , or any other officer of the department of justice who represents the u.s. in a court of law to carry firearms . 
they would be subject to training and regulation as prescribed by the attorney general . 
currently , a number of states permit state prosecutors to carry firearms . 
however , this right is not extended to all federal prosecutors and federal judges . 
my amendment would allow both federal judges and federal prosecutors to carry firearms for their and their families ' protection and provide for training and regular certification . 
the need for my amendment was made clear by the recent tragedies involving , and we have heard the chairman speak to these issues , the brutal murder of family members of u.s. district judge joan lefkow ; the slaying of judge rowland barnes , his court reporter , deputy sheriff , and a federal officer in atlanta ; the cold-blooded shootings outside the tyler , texas courthouse , among others . 
these situations underscore the importance of security for judges and prosecutors . 
there is a significant need to allow judges and u.s. attorneys to carry firearms because threats and dangerous assaults upon them are steadily increasing . 
by virtue of their positions , united states judges and prosecutors are high-profile targets . 
they and their families have often been victims of violent crimes , murder , and threats to their personal safety . 
united states judges , justices , and u.s. attorneys bravely serve the people of the united states of america . 
they prosecute our most serious , sophisticated , and violent offenders . 
these offenders range from international terrorists to armed career criminals . 
protecting the courthouse is important , mr. chairman , but the courthouse is just a building . 
this amendment is designed to provide meaningful protection to the actual person and his or her family . 
my amendment extends protection from the courthouse to the homes in the areas where the judges and prosecutors live . 
our nation relies and depends upon the sound and unintimidated judgment of these dedicated public servants . 
we owe them every reasonable tool to protect themselves and their families . 
this includes the right to carry an effective personal security tool . 
mr. chairman , i urge a `` yes '' vote on this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
