mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i rise in opposition to the scott amendment which eliminates the death penalty for the killing of a federally funded public safety officer , such as a judge , police officer , firefighter , prosecutor , or a family member of a public safety officer . 
according to the bureau of justice statistics , 52 law enforcement officers were feloniously killed in the united states in 2003 and 56 officers were killed in the previous year . 
in the 10-year period from 1994 through 2003 , a total of 616 law enforcement officers were feloniously killed in the line of duty in the united states , 100 of whom were killed in ambush situations , entrapment or premeditated situations . 
if not for the advent of bulletproof vests , an additional 400 officers would have been killed over the last decade , except for the fact that they were wearing protective armor . 
of those responsible for killing police officers between 1994 and 2003 , 521 had a prior criminal arrest , including 153 who had a prior arrest for assaulting a police officer or resisting arrest , 264 for a crime of violence , 230 for a weapons violation , and 23 for murder . 
recent events include the killing of an individual with a grenade in the seattle federal courthouse ; the killing of judge roland barnes , his deputy sheriff and a federal agent in atlanta ; the murders of federal judge lefkow 's husband and mother ; and the murders immediately outside the tyler , texas , courthouse . 
these recent attacks follow on the heels of the 1998 bombing of circuit judge robert vance in the 11th circuit ; the 1998 shooting of judge daronoco ; and the 1979 shooting of judge wood outside his san antonio home . 
according to the administrative office , there are almost 700 threats a year made against federal judges , and security detail have had to be assigned to those federal judges because of the threats of attacks . 
the secure access bill authorizes , but does not require prosecution of federally funded state and local judges and first responders if there is a threat or an assault against them . 
first , jurisdiction only exists when it involves federal funding and protection of federal investment . 
second , under current federal law , the department of justice pays survivor benefits to families of first responders who are killed in the line of duty . 
the federal interest in minimizing these assaults and murders is obvious and cost-saving . 
the intent underlying this provision is to authorize federal prosecution after state and local prosecutors and federal prosecutors determine where such prosecution would best be brought . 
some states do not have a death penalty and federal prosecution of a cop killer may be warranted . 
federal prosecution may be advantageous over state or local prosecutions for a variety of reasons , such as laws relating to evidence , statute of limitations , or other reasons . 
the provisions do not require federal prosecution , but only add another tool in the arsenal to protect law enforcement officers , judges , and other courthouse personnel . 
the need for a swift and effective death penalty is significant in the case of violent offenders who assault and kill law enforcement officers , judges and witnesses . 
several scientifically valid statistical studies that examine a period of years and control for national trends consistently show that capital punishment is a substantial deterrent and saves lives . 
recent estimates show that each execution deters 18 murders . 
i urge a `` no '' vote on the amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
