if i could reclaim my time , let me just say that it is fascinating to listen to my friends on the other side of the aisle who , when we were in the midst of our debate just a few minutes ago on the alternative minimum tax , they were very strong proponents of making sure we bring about reform so that people who are in that wage rate that goes all the way up to $ 342 , 000 a year get relief under the amt . 
so i believe that if you look at the jobs that have been created , if you look at the wage rates that we have right now in the united states , if you look at the standard of living in the united states of america juxtaposed to other countries in the world , it is very clear that the united states of america is the single greatest nation on the face of the earth , and it is in large part due to the fact that we have over the last several years put together a wide range of trade agreements . 
and i would argue that building on the central american free trade agreement , this bahrain trade agreement , which is what we are talking about at this moment , i believe is very , very critical to continuing that kind of growth . 
now , let us look at the issue of the global war on terror . 
my friend from wisconsin raised that . 
now , one of the things that is essential as we seek our opportunity to try and turn the corner on the threat of terrorism , we need to focus on economic growth throughout the middle east . 
a former defense department official said to me when we were talking about the aftermath of september 11 , 2001 , that if we had seen a percentage point or two more growth in afghanistan and pakistan , we might have been able to diminish the threat of september 11 . 
why ? 
because there is a sense that somehow those involved in international terrorism are simply doing this in the name of allah . 
all one needs to do is look at what mohammed atta and his cronies were doing before perpetuating the most heinous act on our soil on september 11 of 2001 . 
it is not as if they were worshipping allah . 
i recall their being in south florida and las vegas , nevada , leading up to that ; meaning the focus on economic opportunity is something that we need to realize can help diminish that kind of terrorist threat there . 
and that is a very important part of what this agreement is about . 
now , i have to say that realizing that the rule of law , the expansion of parliamentary elections , all of those kinds of things which can help diminish that kind of threat are critical , and that is a very important part of this agreement . 
so as i listen to my friends on the other side of the aisle , and i am happy to say this agreement is enjoying strong bipartisan support , but as i listen to those on the other side of the aisle who are opposed to this agreement , it is very unfortunate that so many of them do not recognize the tremendous growth that my friend from florida , the chairman of the trade subcommittee , just went through : the 4.3 percent gdp growth , a 5 percent unemployment rate , 215 , 000 jobs created last month alone in the aftermath of hurricane katrina , and all of the other challenges that we faced , that these have come about in large part due to the trade agreements that we have put into place . 
and why ? 
because we are opening up new markets around the world . 
and i thank my friend very much . 
