mr. speaker , we have heard throughout this debate a lot of reference to the trade deficit . 
i think it is important to look at that . 
when you look at our nation 's trade deficit , we enjoy a very large surplus in services , and our trade deficit comes from a trade deficit in manufactured goods . 
mr. speaker , according to the latest statistics , 94 percent of our trade deficit comes from countries we do not have a free trade agreement with . 
a free trade agreement like this agreement helps us get fair trade rule so we can trade honestly with each other ; and , yes , get an advantage so we can create more jobs , send more exports , and have better paying jobs here at home . 
i will just repeat that statistic one more time : 94 percent of our manufactured good trade deficit comes from countries we do not have a trade agreement with . 
but it is more than that . 
trade combines people . 
what is important about this agreement is beyond the economic value which is very substantial . 
it is about the human value . 
you see , mr. speaker , we have good relations between our governments . 
our 5th fleet is located in bahrain . 
we have great relations between our diplomats and the bahrainees , between our president and the emir . 
what this agreement proposes to do is put american people in contact with bahrainee people , put americans in contact with muslims , put americans in contact with arabs in the gulf so we can better understand each other . 
trade is about individuals combining to join in mutually beneficial behavior and activity and business arrangements , to help their families and help create jobs and grow their economies . 
but more than that , trade will help our people better understand the people we do not understand as well . 
we need a better understanding of people in the arab world . 
we need a better understanding of muslims . 
this is important because of the climate we face in the world . 
that is why it is important that we pass this agreement so that the american people can join and bond in friendship with the bahrainee people in the gulf coast in the middle east so we can have a better understanding of each other . 
as we understand each other better , we can better secure peace and security for our children . 
