mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , today the house considers the united states-bahrain free trade agreement implementation act . 
i am pleased my friend and ranking member of the trade subcommittee ( mr. cardin ) xz4000640 , as well as mr. rangel , has joined me in supporting this agreement . 
it is tremendously important that our trade agenda remain on track and that we seek bipartisan support in accomplishing this goal . 
the administration has publicly stated its commitment to the middle east free trade area by the year 2013 . 
this agreement takes a key step in moving towards this goal . 
political and economic progress continue to take shape in the middle east . 
and by approving this agreement , the united states shows its support for our ally , bahrain , and for the ideal of promoting open markets with leading reforms . 
the office of the united states trade representative has negotiated an agreement that , in my view , will serve as a model for the region . 
upon implementation , all bilateral trade and consumer and industrial products will become duty free . 
all agricultural products are covered by the agreement . 
it will allow for immediate duty-free access for united states agricultural exports in 98 percent of the agricultural categories with a few remaining categories phased out over the next 10 years in addition , the commitments to this agreement relating to services are the strongest in any united states free trade agreement to date . 
finally , i want to recognize the actions taken by bahrain to eliminate all aspects of the arab league boycott of the state of israel . 
bahrain took the commendable step of writing to ambassador portman to reiterate its commitment on this issue . 
bahrain has ended the secondary and tertiary aspects of the boycott , dismantled all aspects of the primary boycott , and is fully committed to complying with world trade organization requirements . 
in addition to these actions by bahrain , i am also pleased with the commitment that the u.s. trade representative made to me during the committee 's consideration of this agreement to report annually on the status of the arab league boycott and efforts to dismantle it in bahrain and all other countries where it has been applied . 
mr. speaker , i submit for printing in the record a letter from bahrain 's finance minister to ambassador portman relating to this issue . 
kingdom of bahrain , ministry of finance , minister 's office , september 5 , 2005 . 
dear ambassador portman : please accept my congratulations on your recent appointment to serve as the u.s. trade representatives . 
i look forward to meeting with you soon to discuss our mutual interest in strengthening trade relations between the kingdom of bahrain and the united states . 
it has come to my attention that questions have arisen regarding any secondary and tertiary boycotts related to israel . 
following a decision of the arab league in 1963 and prior to bahrain 's independence , the bahrain government issued law no . 
5 of 1963 ( finance ) which established the boycott of israel office . 
in 1994 , the kingdom of bahrain eliminated all aspects of secondary and tertiary boycotts which extended to businesses which had relations with israeli companies and businesses . 
attached please find a copy of the memorandum recently sent to all bahrain ministries reminding them that the secondary and tertiary boycotts are null and void . 
in the hope of advancing peace and regional cooperation , the kingdom of bahrain recognizes the need to dismantle the primary boycott of israel and is beginning efforts to achieve that goal . 
as founding members of the world trade organization ( wto ) , the kingdom of bahrain is fully committed to complying with wto requirements . 
bahrain has no restrictions whatsoever on american companies trading with bahrain or doing business in bahrain , regardless of its ownership or relations with israeli companies . 
finally , it is bahrain 's sincerest hope that our free trade agreement with the united states will enhance efforts to achieve a real and lasting peace in the middle east . 
yours sincerely , ahmed bin mohammed al khalifa , mr. speaker , the united states needs allies in the middle east . 
bahrain has stepped up to the plate in so many ways . 
let me state them . 
as the home of our united states navy 's 5th fleet , as a key ally in the war on terror , and by promoting an open and transparent market that will benefit our overall bilateral relationship . 
open and free trade with bahrain will prove beneficial , both in the short run , and especially over time . 
we will witness a nation leading a region of the world towards openness with the united states and doing it through trade . 
through these ties , i firmly believe that this agreement will advance the development of democratic principles throughout that region . 
mr. speaker , i thank my ways and means colleagues for moving this agreement to the floor for today 's consideration . 
i especially want to recognize the efforts of the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. ryan ) xz4003511 and the gentleman from new york ( mr. meeks ) xz4002710 for their commitment to seeing a united states-bahrain free trade agreement come to fruition . 
as co-chairs of the u.s.-bahrain congressional caucus , they educated and provided key information to members and staff in anticipation of this floor vote . 
i want to thank them publicly for their efforts . 
mr. speaker , the agreement before us today is right for america for economic and strategic reasons . 
we must ensure that we support our allies in the middle east . 
by opening markets , we empower people to reap the benefits of economic freedom . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
