mr. speaker , i got up this morning and here is the washington post 's eminent columnist , david broder . 
he begins his story : `` if the house of representatives were a person , it would be blushing these days . 
unfortunately , the house is beyond embarrassment. '' now , i used this before , but i wanted to bring it out here again because i think we need to demonstrate to people what is going on . 
we have christmastime , and we have socks . 
we have poor people 's socks and rich people 's socks . 
and the rich people need $ 100 billion in tax cuts . 
the republicans , for whatever reason , have decided that it is $ 100 billion yesterday and today , $ 100 billion . 
now where do you get the money for that ? 
well you have to cut somebody to get it . 
you have got to cut something , or else you are going to drive up the deficit . 
so the first thing you do is take child care away from 300 , 000 children . 
and you put that in the sock , the stocking of the rich . 
and then you have social security , ssi benefits for the disabled and the elderly . 
and you take $ 700 million away from them and put it into the rich folks ' stocking . 
and then you come to child support enforcement . 
we do not want children who are in divorced families to get money from those deadbeat dads . 
that is not what the republicans say . 
they say , let us save $ 21 billion . 
we will take it away from the children in divorces and put it in the rich people 's stocking . 
and medicaid . 
oh , well , they do not need health care . 
why , there is $ 10 billion we can take away from poor people 's health care and put it in the rich people 's stocking . 
and then there is student loans , $ 14 billion from college students . 
we are going to load it on them . 
that is the middle class . 
that is the lower-class people who are trying to get through on loans . 
we take their loans and we say , no , no , no , no , the rich people need it . 
and then we have one of the best ones of all : food stamps . 
let us take food stamps away from 300 , 000 people ; 300 , 000 people getting food stamps . 
oh , these are the rich . 
oh , but we have to cut them . 
we have to take this away from them . 
you can not have food stamps , poor people or ordinary people ; we got to give a tax break to the rich people . 
and then finally we have foster children . 
way down here in the bottom of the sock . 
we have $ 600 million taken away from the program that we took those children out of another family and took responsibility for . 
we have taken these children away from a family we have accepted responsibility for in this foster care payment , and we cut it and we give it to the rich folks . 
now , you kind of wonder what might be left down here for the poor people . 
well , look at that . 
a lump of coal . 
the poor people better save that lump of coal , because there is nothing in here for their heating bills , the liheap program has not been expanded , and all they are going to have to heat their house is the lump of coal that the republicans put in the poor people 's sock . 
merry christmas . 
i certainly hope you enjoy all the festivities . 
this is a bad bill . 
vote `` no . '' 