mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. speaker , the bill before us today extends important tax relief for families and small businesses all across this country . 
much of the relief in this bill is already in current law and will expire next month . 
if we do not pass this bill , americans will be hit with tax increases . 
the tax relief in this bill goes directly to the issues of poverty and education that the gentleman from new york mentioned . 
this bill will allow america 's teachers to receive tax deductions on out-of-pocket classroom expenses . 
students will be able to use tax incentives to enhance the affordability of higher education . 
employers will be eligible for incentives for hiring low-income americans transitioning from welfare to work , getting on that first rung of the economic ladder , and states and local governments will continue to be able to qualify for tax credit bonds to help repair schools , purchase school equipment and train teachers in economically distressed areas . 
these are just a handful of the important tax benefits this bill will provide to low- and middle-income americans and small business owners . 
this bill is also a big win for our nation 's economy ; and without a strong economy , we will not see families achieve the kind of economic independence they need to realize the american dream . 
this bill reauthorizes and strengthens the research and development tax credit amendment which passed the committee with a unanimous vote . 
it is a valuable tool in promoting u.s. businesses to innovate . 
when i hear about distressed manufacturers in michigan , one of the main issues they are competing on is to innovate and find the newest technology to remain competitive in a global economy . 
michigan 's economy , my home state , is closely tied to the ability of michigan companies to make a sustained commitment to long-term , high-cost research . 
the manufacturing sector in the united states is the highest user of the research and development tax credit . 
michigan , for example , is one of the top 10 states in reported research and development activity with more than 1 , 300 companies performing research and development in that state . 
this bill is a positive piece of legislation across the board . 
it helps small and low-income businesses and working families , as well as helps our manufacturers to rebound , and also our high-tech community to stay competitive in a global economy . 
i urge my colleagues to support this legislation and vote `` yes '' on the bill . 
