mr. speaker , the issue here is priorities and choices . 
there are some similarities , but the differences are vast . 
let us look at the whole picture here , the whole picture . 
you have an alternative minimum tax that is going to hit millions of people if we do not act . 
we have $ 45 billion in extenders on which there is basic agreement . 
we have a reduction in the capital gains and dividends tax which continues for the next few years . 
we have proposed budget cuts . 
we also have the alleged , by the republicans , need for fiscal discipline . 
so what are their choices , because you can not really do everything . 
so here is their choice : extend the dividends and capital gains reduction that continues in any event , extend it to 2009 and 2010 even though over 50 percent goes to people making $ 1 million a year . 
that is their first choice . 
their second choice is budget cuts : cuts in student loans , cuts in child support . 
and i want to say to my colleague from michigan , administrative money for child support goes to raise money for children , not for bureaucrats . 
it is 4 to 5 dollars for every dollar we provide in administrative support . 
essentially , what the republicans do is to reduce the amount of money going to kids over the next 10 years by $ 24 billion . 
their choice also was to leave out the amt from this bill , but then they bring up a bill yesterday , do not pay for it , and it can be objected to in the senate and may not happen at all . 
so their choice is clear : tax relief that goes to people making a million bucks or more and cutting student loans , cutting food support for people who need it , and cutting child support which will mean reductions of $ 24 billion over the next 10 years . 
that is what the choices are here . 
mr. speaker , they do not even maintain fiscal discipline , because if the amt thing were to happen , it would be unpaid for and would add to the deficit . 
our substitute has very different priorities . 
i urge its adoption . 
