mr. speaker , as we begin debate on additional tax cuts -- h.r. 4297 -- we must consider them in the larger context of the challenges this nation is facing and the impact these tax cuts will have , on our ability to face these challenges as well as future challenges . 
our decisions must always prioritize protecting the future of this nation for our children and their children . 
over the thanksgiving recess , i participated in a program in my district that sought to increase early literacy by incorporating reading into doctors ' visits . 
during my visit , i read to these children -- who are about my granddaughter anna 's age -- about `` clifford the big red dog. '' it is truly a wonderful program , and as i recall the joy and animation on each child 's face with every turn of the page , i am reminded just how important the decisions we make today are ... .. 
because we are merely stewards of this nation for them -- and we must act as such . 
are we being wise stewards in choosing to pass another tax cut -- on top of the nearly $ 2 trillion in cuts we have already passed ? 
congress has already transformed a $ 5.6 trillion surplus into a more than $ 3 trillion debt . 
yet , we are still financing the war in iraq and the reconstruction from the war in afghanistan . 
regardless of your view on our nation 's military policy over the past five years -- we must pay for the wars and their subsequent cleanup , yet to date they have been financed by deficit spending . 
and we have only just begun the rebuilding efforts in new orleans , gulfport and other gulf coast cities struck by hurricane katrina . 
which brings us back to the legislation we are considering today . 
there are many positive provisions in this bill . 
they would create an even better future for our children and grandchildren , like my granddaughter anna -- particularly the provision to strengthen and extend the research and development tax credit . 
i am a strong supporter of this investment . 
unfortunately , the centerpiece of this bill -- the dividends and capital gains tax cut extensions -- is unnecessary at this time . 
not only do these cuts not expire until 2008 , they primarily help the same individuals who have already benefited lavishly from the previous rounds of tax cuts . 
so we are at war , we are in debt and yet again we are cutting taxes without fully paying for it . 
the path we are beginning to turn down , as begun by this budget package , may ultimately include tax cuts that will far outstrip the some $ 50 billion worth of unwise spending cuts . 
just the tax cuts in this bill will add at least $ 6 billion to the deficit and it seems more may be added outside this reconciliation process . 
sadly , it seems the only americans asked to sacrifice are the brave men and women in uniform fighting in the middle east and our children and grandchildren , like my anna , who will bear the burden of our massive debt . 
this defies historical precedent and common sense . 
we do , however , have an opportunity to make a decision that will return us to the path of fiscal responsibility . 
ranking member rangel has offered a pragmatic and effective substitute bill and i am glad today 's rule will allow a vote on it . 
this alternative will extend the tax cuts that expire at the end ofthe year and provide a muchneeded amt patch . 
and the democratic alternative will be paid for by taking back a small portion of the tax cuts that benefit families earning more than $ 500 , 000 . 
simply , we extend only what is necessary and we pay for it -- anna and other future generations deserve no less . 
i urge my colleagues to embrace the principle of shared sacrifice and reject this tax reconciliation package in favor of the responsible democratic substitute . 
