well , mr. speaker , you can take away our right to go to conference , our right to amend bills , but one thing you can not take away is our right to vote . 
we have a game called 3 card molly in new york . 
you never know which one is under the shell . 
so they have an opportunity to say that they want to help the wealthiest americans , but they like to give a whole lot of talk to those people who , through no fault of their own , except the ineptness and the inability of the republicans to correct it , they got caught in the alternative minimum tax . 
now , they will scream out that they took care of it on the suspension bill . 
well , you do not have to be a parliamentarian to know when you send something to that other side and put it on the suspension calendar , you had better send a prayer over with it because any one guy can stand up and say i object . 
but when you cover it because you believe in it and put it in the reconciliation bill , it means that is what you really want to do . 
at the end of the day , when we vote , all we are saying is , we ask the conferees , whenever they might meet , that they are instructed by this house to take care of those who really deserve the tax privilege the most . 
take care of those who were not really thrown into this thing because of increased income , but were thrown into the alternative minimum tax that was not supposed to capture them , but they got there because of inflation . 
in 3 card molly , you do not know what is going to happen . 
but we will know at the end of this vote something that john lewis knows that they said in the civil rights movement , and that is , which side are you on ? 
what a great opportunity . 
take away everything you want . 
take away our votes , our opportunity to express ourselves , give us rules that you like to give us . 
but , on this vote , at the end of the day , people might ask how did you treat the alternative minimum tax ? 
some people might say , well , it did come up in the house . 
it was not important enough to put in the reconciliation bill and it was not important enough to allow a lot of debate . 
we put it on the suspension calendar because it was not paid for and we did not think it would be controversial . 
and so , with all of the debate , what is going to happen 