mr. speaker , i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 4297 , yet another tax break for the richest among us at the expense of those who have the least . 
the republicans want to cut taxes by $ 94.5 billion . 
how do they pay for these cuts ? 
before thanksgiving they voted to cut $ 50 billion from programs that help the poorest americans . 
the conclusion is obvious : they are paying for the tax cuts for wealthy americans by cutting programs for working americans . 
under the tax break package presented today , a family of four surviving on $ 30 , 000 a year will get an average of $ 50 extra in their tax return next april . 
meanwhile , a millionaire will gain an extra $ 51 , 000 . 
lets just see what kind of lifestyle enhancement these tax cuts can buy : the $ 30 , 000 working family of four can use the extra $ 4.16 they receive each month to buy any one of the following : 1.75 gallons of gas ; a half-pound of cheese ; one gallon of orange juice ; two loaves of white bread ; three grapefruits ; or for those indebted to the nra , 6 bullets for a .44 magnum . 
people making over $ 1 million get a tax break of $ 4 , 250 a month , that they could use to purchase one of the following : leases on four bmw 750i sedans ; 17 ipod nano 's ; a 50 inch flat screen plasma tv ; a five karat diamond tennis bracelet ; or a 10-day european cruise . 
or , if they wanted to , they could pay the monthly health insurance premiums for four families . 
if the republicans want to cut taxes , they should pay for it . 
we could save billions by pulling our troops out of iraq . 
that could pay for katrina relief and stop cuts to important programs for working families . 
instead of handing out holiday tax breaks to rich republican campaign donors , we should be rolling back bush 's tax breaks for millionaires to better fund important programs like medicaid and student loans . 
also , republicans need to drop the `` fiscal conservative '' moniker . 
these tax breaks combined with last month 's cuts on programs for those in need will rack up $ 44 billion in new debt . 
the fiscal disciplines of the republican party apparently means we drive our nation into debt and send the bill to our children and grandchildren . 
the numbers do n't lie . 
the republican priority is tax breaks for the rich , nothing more . 
they will cut programs for the poor and increase the deficit by billions of dollars to get their way . 
i urge all my colleagues to stop this insane fiscal policy by voting `` no '' on this bill . 
