mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i would just like to respond to my colleague on the other side of the aisle . 
this issue did not pop up out of thin air . 
my colleagues on the other side of the aisle know full well that we have been working on this . 
we have had numerous , numerous conversations since last may on this particular task force . 
leon panetta , who headed the pew ocean policy commission 's report , is in favor of this task force . 
admiral watkins , who worked on the oceans commission 's report , is in favor of this task force . 
as a matter of fact , both of those men , leon panetta and admiral watkins , are urging my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote in favor of this . 
now , as far as my subcommittee that mr. pallone xz4003080 serves on dealing with these issues , this is a commission report that did cost a few million dollars , and it is worthy of our close scrutiny , not having staff make up a bill that we do not know the substance of that bill . 
this commission report is worthy of our attention , of our observation , of our analysis , of our critical understanding of it . 
my subcommittee has been dealing with the issues that have come under our jurisdiction . 
we are working on the marine mammal recommendations , marine debris recommendations , coral reef recommendations , magnuson act recommendations . 
we are doing that and passing that through the subcommittee . 
but 24 chapters are outside those issues . 
they deal with the science committee , the transportation committee , the agriculture committee , the international relations committee , the education committee , the financial services committee . 
we think , instead of fragmenting this all over again because 30 and 40 years ago we went through this with the stratton report and there was not any single entity in the house of representatives that took a critical and analytical view of the stratton report , we want to do that now . 
now is the time to do that . 
mr. speaker , i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from new jersey ( mr. saxton ) xz4003590 . 
