madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time to address both the rule and the bill . 
madam speaker , i rise in support of the rule and the bill . 
and frankly , i never cease to be amazed by some of the discussion from the other side , for oftentimes they accurately identify the problem , and then completely ignore the solution . 
madam speaker , traditional pension plans once the legacy of a lifetime of work are crumbling . 
they are crumbling . 
we are able to bring this bill to the floor today for swift passage because there is an ever-growing coalition of support behind it from labor and employer groups to other individuals who know acutely the problem that we have . 
action by congress is necessary to protect the important retirement of all hardworking americans . 
large and small businesses need changes to current law in order to have greater flexibility to help their employees plan for their financial security . 
current plans , defined benefit plans primarily , have not adapted to the times . 
they have used the same formula since their inception : the number of years worked multiplied by a certain amount of money . 
this formula does not account for a changing marketplace , and it does not result in the most benefit for workers . 
today , a retirement plan must be as dynamic as our society . 
inflexibility for both employers and employees is imperative . 
this pension protection act is a step in the right direction , and it is important that congress pass it . 
a couple of the provisions i would like to highlight are reforms . 
these are significant changes and require employers to make significant contributions to the plans to meet 100 percent of the funding target . 
that is an improvement . 
this bill provides for a permanent interest rate to more accurately measure liabilities . 
that is an improvement . 
it appropriately raises premiums that employers pay into the pbgc . 
we understand and appreciate that the pbgc , that cushion between pension plans and the taxpayer , needs to be more financially secure . 
it requires defined benefit plans to include detailed information and greater disclosures , and allows employees to receive better investment advice . 
madam speaker , these are all improvements . 
the other side says this allows employers to shirk their responsibilities . 
frankly , that is just plain wrong . 
without reform , the system may very well collapse under the weight of mounting deficits and the government and taxpayer bailouts are not fair for employers , they are not fair for employees , and they are not fair , certainly , for taxpayers . 
americans expect us to solve difficult problems . 
the pension protection act is one of those things that requires and deserves ours attention . 
i urge my colleagues to support both the rule and the underlying bill . 
i also look forward to the discussion with the chairman of the committee during the debate on the bill itself , and highlight the need for reform in the airline industry , which , in my area and across this nation , is so drastically calling out for reform . 
