mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
mr. speaker , i am sure that people who are watching this debate are somewhat confused about some of the technical provisions that we have talked about on the funding of a guaranteed fund . 
but let me try to simplify it . 
the bottom line is that the total changes that are being suggested make it more rigid and less predictable for those companies that have traditional pension plans as to how much money they have to put into the guaranteed fund . 
understand that the guaranteed fund is funded by the companies making contributions to the guaranteed fund . 
it is not funded by the government . 
so if you have a plan that is well-funded and you are now being told it is going to cost you more to stay in that plan , there is an incentive for you to freeze your plan or to leave . 
that is what is going to happen , and that is why we are very concerned about many people losing their traditional pension plans as a result of this legislation . 
the second point , let me point out , is that many members have been talking about the airline industry and to try to help the airline industry . 
i pointed out that i think we should do that . 
we should do that because , a , it will allow the guaranteed fund to concentrate on other plans , and companies will not arbitrarily cancel their plans because they are afraid they are going to be stuck with the costs of bailing out the airline industry . 
that makes sense . 
but we are told : we are going to do that in conference , trust us . 
we are the legislative body . 
we should do it . 
how do we know what is going to come out of conference ? 
it is our responsibility to make sure it is done . 
we made some changes for the auto industry . 
why have we not brought in those provisions ? 
it is our responsibility to do it . 
and i have n't heard anyone talk about how we are going to correct the problem of an industry going into bankruptcy in order to save their costs . 
is there any hope that that will come out of conference ? 
i doubt it . 
we can do better . 
i urge my colleagues to reject this bill . 
