mr. speaker , like the president 's wishful , staged declaration of `` mission accomplished '' on that aircraft carrier 2 1/2 years ago , or the vice president 's declaration that the insurgency was in its `` final throes , '' this resolution proclaims the desire of congress for `` victory '' in iraq . 
instead of dispatching our troops in adequate numbers , this congress made one speech after another . 
instead of covering our troops with adequate , impenetrable armor , this congress passed one paper resolution after another like this , which provided little shield from those who would do our brave men and women harm . 
well , each day 's news shows how out of touch this administration and its congressional followers continue to be . 
like the administration , this congress has no idea what victory means other than trying to escape the morass that its bad judgment got us into . 
i believe that victory in iraq , which we all desire , begins with a commitment to championing the truth . 
this is an administration that can not utter `` iraq '' without saying `` 9/11 , '' even though it knows there is absolutely no connection between the two . 
to win a war you have to shoot straight . 
our young men and women in iraq and afghanistan understand that , but this administration and its congressional followers demonstrate again and again that they do not -- when they are discussing the real weakness of the iraqi army or fail to do so , the strength of the insurgency , or the length our armed forces should be deployed . 
they are so proud of the democratic choices made in iraq this week and so very fearful for there to be any democratic choices on the resolution of the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos ) xz4002310 and others . 
they fear a democratic debate in this house because their position is one of complete weakness . 
they have waved the white flag themselves at the possibility of a true debate in this congress . 
what we need is a genuine debate about the best pathway for our security in iraq . 
the president finally conceded over 30 , 000 civilians have died in this invasion . 
we have passed 2 , 000 young , brave men and women in the service of america , and we are on the way to 3 , 000 . 
this administration has begun a public relations offensive when what we need is an offensive for the protection of our families . 
it has abandoned that in favor of a meaningless political victory , not a real plan for success for the security of our families . 
