mr. chairman , i rise today in support of h.r. 2985 the legislative branch appropriations for fiscal year 2006 . 
however , i find it truly unfortunate that these appropriations were consistently under-funded because of the tight budget due to the massive tax cuts given to the richest americans . 
these bush administration tax cuts have created gaps in so many programs and these legislative branch appropriations are no different . 
the total funding for this legislation is $ 2.87 billion which is only 2 % more than current levels and $ 270 million ( 9 % ) less than requested by the various legislative offices and agencies . 
this bill appropriates $ 1.1 billion for operations of the house of representatives which is only $ 13 million ( 1 % ) more than current funding and $ 35 million ( 3 % ) less than requested . 
it is unfortunate that these appropriations are so tight , when the cost of operating the house of representatives is in fact getting higher . 
these costs are becoming higher because the needs of our constituencies are becoming greater . 
with these unfortunate budget cuts in place it will be our constituents who suffer . 
regardless of these cuts , congress will continue to function properly and we will serve our constituents proudly , but these cuts in our funding undermine our efforts . 
in addition to insufficient funding to the house of representatives , the greatest deficiencies can be found in the legislative branch agencies that directly or indirectly support congressional operations . 
this funding is only $ 32.6 million ( 2 % ) more than current levels and a staggering $ 234.8 million ( 12 % ) less than requested . 
funding for the capitol police , who are entrusted with protecting the capitol complex and all those who work and visit here actually received $ 2 million ( 1 % ) less than in fy 2005 , and $ 50.4 million ( 17 % ) less than requested in this appropriation . 
the architect of the capitol who have worked so hard in the last year to make the capitol complex more accessible to visitors received only $ 317.3 million , $ 16.7 million ( 6 % ) more than current funding but a full $ 123.6 million ( 28 % ) less than requested . 
the government printing office ( gpo ) which serves the demanding printing needs of hundreds of legislators every year received only $ 122.6 million which is $ 2.8 million ( 2 % ) more than current funding but $ 8.5 million ( 6 % ) less than requested . 
indeed , even the library of congress , the resource for members and staff to conduct research and the institution meant to be our nation 's greatest repository of reading materials , even their funding was cut in this appropriation . 
the library of congress received $ 543 million , about equal to the fy 2005 level but $ 47.8 million ( 8 % ) less than requested . 
however , the issue that has me most concerned about this appropriation is the language of h.r. 841 , which would require states to hold special elections within 49 days of the speaker declaring that more than 100 vacancies exist in the house . 
first of all , this language has no business being in this appropriations measure , it clearly legislates on what is supposed to be a spending bill . 
truly , the other side of the aisle is trying to sneak in a piece of legislation within this appropriation in order to force its passage upon the senate . 
furthermore , this language within this bill threatens to weaken the electoral process , to disenfranchise overseas , disabled , and lower-income voters and thereby reduce individual rights . 
the more expedited the process of replacing despite my objections with certain provisions of this legislation i will vote in favor of this appropriation because it serves the needs of our congress . 
however , i hope that soon our economic and budgeting practices would change so that we are not forced to make so many cuts in vital areas . 
i also hope that in the future we do not use these appropriations bills as a way to further our legislative agendas . 
it is my sincere hope that the institution of congress , which was made to serve the needs of the people , will continue to be effective no matter the obstacle . 
