mr. chairman , at a time when nearly all federal agencies are facing the need for spending discipline , it is imperative that we apply restraint to ourselves as well -- to the operations of congress itself . 
this bill -- the legislative branch appropriations act for fiscal year 2006 ( h.r. 2985 ) -- does that it holds congressional spending to a modest 1.7 percent increase , compared with 2005 . 
i rise in support of this bill , which complies with the budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 . 
most of the funding in this bill goes to non-political agencies , and non-elected people , who make it possible to do our work : the people who provide vital data and analysis to inform our policy decisions ; who keep our buildings and grounds functioning ; and -- of special importance -- providing security for all of the legislative branch . 
h.r. 2985 provides $ 2.87 billion in new budget authority and $ 2.5 billion in new outlays for programs within the legislative branch . 
this funding covers various legislative support agencies such as the architect of the capitol , library of congress , congressional research service , congressional budget office and the government accountability office , and the capitol police . 
the funding level represents an increase of $ 42 million in ba and $ 241 million in outlays over last year , a 1.7 percent increase from fy 2005 levels . 
consistent with a long-standing practice -- under which each chamber of congress determines its own housekeeping requirements , and the other concurs without change , appropriations for the senate are not included in the bill reported to the house . 
this measure , in providing $ 2.865 billion in budget authority for the operations of the legislative branch excluding senate functions , is well below the overall suballocation of $ 3.719 billion . 
however a level was set within this $ 3.719 billion for legislative operations excluding senate functions of $ 2.831 billion . 
hence , though this measure complies with the relevant points of order under the budget act , it breaches the level internally set by the appropriations committee . 
it is expected that , when this measure is reported from conference committee , the overall level of spending for all legislative operations , including house , senate and support agencies , will be at or below the level set pursuant to 302 ( b ) of the congressional budget act . 
the bill contains a small recession in ba for the library of congress for the copyright reengineering project and no advance appropriations or emergency-designated spending . 
the bill provides $ 311 million to the architect of the capitol ( aoc ) for various operational and maintenance activities under the jurisdiction of the aoc , including , $ 37 million to complete construction of the capitol visitor center . 
this bill also recommends the establishment of a capitol visitors center governing board to address the issue of daily operations of the visitor center . 
$ 543 million to the library of congress , a decrease of $ 2 million from fy 2005 , $ 122 million to the government printing office , an increase of $ 3 million from fy 2005 and $ 482 million for government accountability office , an increase of $ 15 million over fy 2005 . 
the bill also provides $ 240 million for the capitol police . 
as we all know , ever since 9-11 the demands on these officers have grown significantly . 
finally , the bill provides $ 1.092 billion for operations of the house of representatives and a modest increase of $ 13 million or 1.2 percent , compared with 2005 . 
i commend the committee on appropriations for bringing us a bill that funds the operations of this house at levels generally consistent with the levels authorized under the fiscal year 2006 budget resolution . 
