madam speaker , let me thank the gentleman from new york for yielding me this time . 
madam speaker , this legislation in front of us today as it relates to china is about one thing and one thing only : providing political cover for those who are reluctant to embrace cafta . 
that is all this is about . 
it is about outing cafta . 
the majority realizes if they simply put cafta on the floor , they do not have even the muscle in this instance to put this legislation through . 
so what are we doing instead ? 
we are offering a veneer to the american people , a ruse , as it relates to the problems we are having with our trade practices in china . 
is there anybody who believes that this is about to alter our trading practices with china ? 
we all know it is badly out of balance . 
and this legislation makes the problem worse . 
currency manipulation in this legislation , no action . 
dealing with chinese trade barriers in this legislation , no action . 
we are going to monitor and study . 
i think that if they put a study in front of this house , we all ought to take a test on it in 2 years . 
sit down and we will all pay attention to the test that they offer . 
imagine in a serious issue like this , we are going to ask for studies . 
safeguards , no action . 
subsidies , they create more loopholes than they address . 
on customs duties , they have a 3-year , but listen to this , temporary measure to deal with the issue . 
this is a sloppy bill . 
it is going to do more harm than good . 
when it is over , the professors will have their jobs , the trade lawyers will have their jobs , the editorial writers across the country will have their jobs ; but the men and women of organized labor who call this for what it is , they know that their jobs are at risk and they are opposed to this legislation . 
it guts trade laws , and it gives more power to wto . 
it purports to help solve problems with customs enforcement . 
it makes them worse . 
it does not require china to make meaningful changes to its policy of currency manipulation . 
how much more emphasis can we put on that issue in this institution ? 
we need to recalibrate our trading relationship with china . 
this will not do it , and everybody knows it . 
an emphasis on that term , recalibrate our trading relationship with china . 
when we get done with this legislation today , and there is some question as to whether or not they can pass it , i am just going to close on this note . 
we have a highly regarded regular order in this institution of the responsibilities of the committee on ways and means , the committee that many members of this institution desire to be on . 
you do not go around the committee the way this is being done . 
you go through the committee . 
you have hearings with a respected tradition in this house of representatives for the committee on ways and means . 
you do not do this through the back door . 
