mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , we object to the suspension calendar being used for political purposes . 
as most of us know , this calendar is supposed to be used to expedite legislation that is not controversial and has no substantial opposition . 
one would hardly believe that this bill is on the calendar today for purposes of improving our trade relationship with the people 's republic of china . 
clearly , for those who are following the central american free trade agreement with the dominican republic , they know that this is another effort to elicit votes for a bill that has not got bipartisan support and should have bipartisan support . 
i think it is bad policy and bad politics for our foreign policy and certainly our trade policy to be used in an effort to solicit votes or to be done in a partisan way to see who won and who lost . 
the chairman of the committee is right that the democrat side as well as working with the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 is very anxious to clear up the complexities that put the united states at a disadvantage as relates to dealing with the chinese government . 
but at the same time , we truly believe that these bills should not be the rangel bill with democrats or the english bill with republicans , but rather a bill that we can say as members of the committee on ways and means and as member of congress that we have taken it to the committees , we have had hearings , and we have come out with a position that you do not have to check the party to know whether it is right or whether it is wrong . 
there is a substantial difference between the bills that the democrats put in , which certainly deals with the provisions that are in the bill before us today , but also it prevents the loopholes that are in that bill and provides for other considerations that would make this a better bill and improve our relationship with china . 
again , mr. speaker , this bill has nothing to do with china and has everything to do with an attempt to get votes for dr-cafta . 
we hope that a vote against this bill will send a message to democrats and republicans not to use the procedures of the house for political purposes ; to not put controversial bills on the suspension calendar , and to take them to the committee of jurisdiction where they belong so that they can be discussed , debated , and then brought to the floor in a bipartisan way so that we can look at it . 
mr. speaker , i hope this bill is pulled so that we do not have to take a vote on it . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
