mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
the united states trade rights enforcement act , as amended , is a compendium of a number of positions that have been expressed in a bipartisan way by members of this house in regard to some of our trading partners . 
this bill has been identified as an `` anti-china '' bill . 
that simply is not the case . 
the provisions to assist us in determining how you examine a nonmarket economy and determine whether or not it is carrying out practices that are in violation of the wto is applied to any country with a nonmarket economy . 
it is true that there are monitoring provisions dealing with agreements that china has voluntarily laid on the table ; for example , moving away from the government of china using counterfeit software and , therefore , protecting intellectual property rights , and china assigned itself the date of the end of calendar year 2005 . 
this merely creates a monitoring process to determine how it can be achieved . 
the bill is very timely because it includes another monitoring process just recently announced by the government of china dealing with its currency , its desire to unpeg its currency to the u.s. dollar and have it move modestly against a basket of world currencies . 
that also , in this legislation , would be monitored . 
i am pleased to say that the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel ) xz4003330 and the gentlewoman from connecticut ( mrs. johnson ) xz4002051 have examined and offered a resolution on the government procurement agreement of the world trade organization urging china to fully participate . 
that is included as well . 
this bill is designed to meet a number of members ' particular concerns focused on world trade , not just china . 
for example , additional money is being provided to the united states trade representative for enforcement purposes . 
yes , it includes the office of china affairs , but i do want members to know it also includes the office of japan , korea , and asian pacific affairs because there are several provisions in here monitoring , frankly , the government of japan based upon its unfair trade practices , most focused on the use of so-called sanitary and phytosanitary measures as , in fact , nontariff trade barriers . 
so this is a compendium of concerns presented at a time that the trade issues will be in front of us this week , and leadership felt , and i agree as well , that this measure allows us to focus beyond this hemisphere , in fact , at major trading partners and behavior that we have seen not just in terms of providing tools to enforce u.s. trade rights , but to monitor personal individual and voluntary commitments made by governments as well . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
