mr. chairman , i yield myself 45 seconds . 
mr. chairman , this is about chaos and confusion . 
there is no definition of how the announcement will go out to the people beyond the beltway . 
a mere extending from 2 days to 5 days to make sure that americans , even in crisis , have due process and democracy and justice is not too much to ask . 
i would indulge and beg my colleagues to realize all this does is simply allow for the people of america in crisis to be represented and to be responded to . 
mr. chairman , i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from california ( ms. millender-mcdonald ) xz4002750 , the ranking member of the committee on house administration . 
ms. millender-mcdonald . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the jackson-lee amendment . 
a portion of the gentlewoman 's amendment seeks to provide an expedited appeals process to the united states district court for matters arising out of the special election process . 
we have been talking about this 44 , 45 , 49-day deadline for special state elections , and it already places significant constraints on the electoral process and on the citizens represented due to its brevity . 
taking away the right of an appeal to united states district court would excessively curtail the procedural due process rights enjoyed by citizens . 
i support the gentlewoman 's amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield myself the balance of my time , and thank the gentlewoman for her support . 
again , the idea of this amendment , in the judicial review aspect , one , there is no definitive information about how the information will be disseminated to our states and to citizens in a 2-day period if crisis is occurring , if a terrorist act has occurred . 
my amendment gives an additional 5 days to guarantee that that notice be given . 
in addition , the other aspects of the legislation provides for an expedited time frame . 
it does not in any way cause a sufficient delay that would not allow us to restore this body to its ability to do business on behalf of the american people . 
continuity , tragedy , all equal bipartisanship . 
i would ask my colleagues to look at this amendment and all it does provide , the enhanced due process . 
and i think we would not want the terrorists to believe that because of a terrorist act that we have lost our sense of judgment , the constitution and due process . 
after 9/11 , we went to new york to show that we are not afraid of the terrorists . 
i believe we should show that we are not afraid of them by upholding the constitution and due process on behalf of the american people . 
vote for the jackson-lee amendment . 
i ask my colleagues to vote for this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
