mr. chairman , reclaiming my time , i think it is important for the public to know that all of us are concerned about continuity of government in the event of a tragedy . 
we certainly would not be having this discussion if it had not been for 9/11 . 
but , indeed , there are differences in the approach that one might take . 
some prefer a constitutional amendment ; and yet we have tried that on more than one occasion . 
we have had the debate , and very few in this house have supported that proposition . 
so the speaker has asked us to go forward with an idea that will be worked on carefully between now and the time we finish our work with the senate . 
but from that point forward , let me talk a bit about the capitol visitors center . 
my colleague , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 , and i , early on in this congress , were not active supporters of a cvc . 
but , indeed , his leadership and my leadership , at a higher pay grade , made a different decision ; so we are carrying forward their work in this process . 
i have looked at the visitors center very carefully . 
it is rather a fabulous addition to the capitol , the greatest addition that has been made in this century , i believe . 
indeed , within the mix of that , while i might change some things , i prefer not to suggest what the details ought to be that the architect moves forward with . 
i am critical of the architect ; but in the meantime , i am not one . 
therefore , we are going to add this major change whereby visitors can enter the capitol , and it will have a very significant piece of our future history in the capitol complex . 
it is going to be a fabulous addition . 
indeed , it will be a very high-quality addition that we will all be proud of , but i think it would be a mistake for me to try to be the architect between now and then . 
so with that , mr. chairman , this has been a very interesting debate about the work of the people 's house . 
i am very happy to participate in this with my friend , the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 . 
