mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i thank the gentleman for the eloquence and the simplicity of his statement , and as a new member here , i certainly respect my senior member 's opinions on this matter , and i do concur . 
with that , i would certainly appreciate the kindness of the house in voting for this amendment that would somewhat restrain our spending in the matter of printing here in congress . 
and we are not going to eliminate jobs in this instance . 
i just think we need to fund security rather than paper and printing , and with that , i would urge the adoption of this amendment . 
ms. millender-mcdonald . 
mr. chairman , i oppose the amendment offered by the gentleman from north carolina [ mr. mchenry ] . 
as the ranking member of the joint committee on printing , i can appreciate the gentleman 's interest in reducing excessive printing and diverting the funds to more useful purposes . 
however , rather than shifting spending from gpo to the capitol police , the amendment has the potential merely to increase spending . 
this is because the congressional printing and binding appropriation is not a traditional appropriation to support a predetermined amount of work by the gpo . 
it is a pre-payment for the work congress orders from gpo . 
the gpo will perform whatever work congress orders , and congress will pay for it in a subsequent appropriation , if necessary . 
merely reducing the printing and binding appropriation will not reduce the amount of printing . 
by contrast , the amendment would shift the gpo funds to the capitol police , which could and presumably would spend the money for its general expenses . 
the appropriations committee has recommended the sum of $ 29.3 million for the capitol police 's general expenses . 
as ranking member of the house administration committee , which has jurisdiction over the capitol police , i believe we should accept the appropriations committee 's recommendation . 
i urge a `` no '' vote . 
mr. chairman , i yield back the balance of my time . 
