mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i might consume . 
the legislative branch bill , mr. chairman , provides for $ 2.870 billion , an increase of only 1.7 percent over the fiscal year 2005 . 
the bill represents a $ 270 million reduction from the budget request . 
mr. chairman , although we did not agree on every item on this bill , we worked very closely with the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 to produce a bipartisan bill for the legislative branch . 
i want to thank all the committee members for their contributions in putting this bill together . 
while small in size , this is the bill that funds the work of the congress , and it is a bill that we all can be very proud of . 
the bill includes funding for the operations of the house and several joint items , the capitol police , the compliance board , the congressional budget office , the architect of the capitol , the library of congress , the government printing office , the general accountability office , and the open world leadership program . 
there will be no reductions in the current workforce . 
the bill provides for all personnel cost-of-living increases and all other pay-related costs . 
the bill also was reported out of the full committee on a voice vote . 
the capitol visitor center is funded at the cost-to-complete level of $ 36.9 million . 
the bill does not include funding for cvc operating expenses . 
the bill establishes an inspector general for the capitol police . 
the bill terminates the mounted horse unit and transfers the horses and equipment to the u.s. park service . 
as part of an amendment in the full committee , i offered , and the committee adopted , the continuity in representation act at the speaker 's request . 
this bill has passed the house twice , and just recently , the vote in march was 329 to 68 . 
mr. chairman , this is a good bill and one that benefits the entire legislative branch . 
ultimately , this is the bill that reflects the work of the house . 
we are all in this together , mr. chairman , and because of that , i feel very strongly that this legislation should have the support of the entire house . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
