mr. chairman , i want to thank the gentlewoman from california for her leadership on this issue and for yielding me this time , and i want to thank the chairman for accepting our amendment . 
i have a statement that i will submit for the record . 
mr. chairman , i thank the gentlewoman from california ( ms. solis ) , for yielding and introducing this amendment , which i 'm proud to cosponsor . 
mr. chairman , how do you make a bad idea worse ? 
if you 're epa , offer families $ 970 to videotape their children reacting to bug sprays , carpet cleaners , and other household pesticides . 
then , invite the american chemistry council as a partner in this study , knowing that in exchange for $ 2 million paid toward the study , it wants looser regulations for the pesticide industry , which in turn wants to use humans instead of animals so it can justify relaxed exposure limits . 
epa 's study is as poorly conceived as its acronym : cheers -- which stands for the children 's health environmental exposure research study . 
it 's a trifecta of unethical , immoral , and unscientific research . 
it violates the post world war ii `` nuremburg code , '' which outlawed medical testing , including pesticide testing on people . 
it advances private rather than medical interests , putting industry ahead of public health . 
and despite epa 's own science advisory board and scientific advisory panels recommendening strict safeguards for human testing , epa failed to adopt them . 
mr. chairman , we all want to understand how common chemicals like those found under the kitchen sink can hurt children , the elderly and the most vulnerable to poisoning . 
but the way to collect that information should not involve hurting the very people we want to protect . 
the government should not be asking families to turn their babies into lab rats . 
we should be protecting children , not exposing them to pesticides . 
although we passed this amendment by unanimous consent two years ago , epa resurrected the study when the fiscal year expired in october . 
we need to pass the solis-bishop amendment to ensure epa 's research is based on sound science with the highest ethical standards . 
our amendment is supported by a broad coalition of environmental advocates , including the alliance for human research protection in my home state of new york . 
i strongly encourage my colleagues to support this amendment , again thank the gentlewoman from california for her excellent work . 
