mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume , and i thank the gentleman from north carolina . 
mr. chairman , i will submit the remainder of my statement for the record , and i would ask that members of the house approve this amendment . 
it is long overdue . 
i am very grateful to accept support from the other side of the aisle . 
despite this statement , the epa can devise and conduct studies where humans -- children and adults -- are exposed to pesticides . 
current practices also allow the epa to accept studies from the pesticide industry and other outside sources so these studies can be used to help develop regulations or approve pesticides . 
right now , the united states environmental protection agency -- the agency in charge of protecting public health from environmental toxins -- is encouraging industry to use human beings as guinea pigs . 
what may be the greatest offense yet , is that the epa is conducting and engaging in these studies with no binding safeguards to make sure these tests protect public health . 
the epa has chosen to go against the recommendation of the national academy of sciences and against the wishes of its own science advisory board and science advisory panel . 
not only are there no binding safeguards for epa conducted studies , but many of the outside studies which the epa accepts fail to meet minimum international standards established in the nuremberg code and in the helsinki declaration of the world medical association . 
this behavior is deplorable , unethical , and wrong . 
our amendment is critical because , in the absence of binding standards at epa , the pesticides industry has increased its use of human testing studies and putting more humans at risk for what are frequently statistically invalid studies . 
the trend of using humans -- both children and adults -- as guinea pigs is a trend that needs to stop . 
the epa needs to have binding safeguards in place , and we need to have information about how a better understanding of how dangerous and toxic these pesticides are for our children . 
without these safeguards the epa should not be conducting tests which dangerously expose humans to pesticides nor should it be developing policy based on third party studies which fail to meet even basic internationally accepted standards . 
my colleagues , the solis-bishop amendment is supported by environmental and diverse religious organizations and among more than 80 , 000 others who have written to me saying they oppose the cheers study and support a moratorium on this type of testing . 
i urge you to support our amendment and prevent the unregulated and unethical testing of pesticides on humans . 
mr. chairman , i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from new york ( mr. bishop ) xz4000311 , the cosponsor of this amendment . 
