mr. speaker , for the purpose of debate only , i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from florida ( mr. hastings ) xz4001701 , pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
during consideration of this resolution , all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only . 
this resolution provides for an open rule on h.r. 2361 , the interior appropriations act for fiscal year 2006 , and provides for 1 hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking member of the committee on appropriations . 
for the purpose of amendments , this rule provides for priority recognition to members who preprinted their amendments in the & lt ; /em & gt ; & lt ; em & gt ; congressional record , and the rule also allows for certain points of order to be raised in the course of consideration of this bill . 
mr. speaker , this bill deals with filibusters in the u.s. senate . 
actually , mr. speaker , it does not , but until you say that magic word the media does not send its attention to the fact that the house is actually continuing on with the input of good government in our processes , so this bill actually , for which i am pleased to stand before the house and support the rule on the underlying legislation , is the interior appropriations act . 
i appreciate the hard work and the hard choices that the subcommittee chairman , the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. taylor ) xz4003992 , the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) , the gentleman from washington ( mr. dicks ) xz4001090 , and many others have put into making and putting this essential funding bill together , which does live within the budget discipline , and in fact reflects the priorities of this congress . 
at the same time , it reflects important committee priorities within the budget itself . 
we realize that this congress , this nation , does not have the money to do everything . 
but what we decide to do we should do well . 
by prioritizing the needs , this provides , for example , an increase in six of the eight epa programs for the environment . 
it provides for a $ 118 million increase for indian health services , a $ 25 million increase over last year 's funding level for restoration of the everglades . 
these are simply examples . 
a few others . 
provides for national heritage area grants and historic preservation , something that to an old history teacher i appreciate . 
this bill provides important resources to help manage our nation 's public forest resources and our national parks . 
it includes , for example , a $ 70 million increase for the national parks base funding , but at the same time $ 440 million to help reduce the backlog of national park maintenance . 
that is how these bills and these monies should be prioritized , to help preserve and enhance these unique national treasures . 
it also provides for a record amount of funding to the national fire plan , and gives the department flexibility in these accounts to help prevent and fight the annual onslaught of raging fires on public lands in the west , which have plagued many areas , especially california in recent years . 
i am also pleased in particular that the gentleman from north carolina ( chairman taylor ) has been diligent in funding the vital payment in lieu of tax program , or pilt , which so many western and rural counties depend upon for these vital public services . 
since this is an open rule , any member will be allowed to offer germane amendments . 
this is a good rule . 
i think it supports a good bill . 
i strongly urge their adoption . 
with that , mr. speaker , i urge adoption of the rule . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
