mr. speaker , the issue is accountability . 
the gentleman from new york ( mr. walsh ) xz4004200 touched on it and so did the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. wamp ) xz4004210 . 
the credibility must be rebuilt , and omb is integral to this process . 
i have asked secretary nicholson to review the leadership of the vha bureaucracy to ensure that the right people are running it , and also its finances and some within the health network . 
in particular , i am greatly disappointed and have lost confidence in the leadership and management of the deputy under secretary for health , for operations and for management . 
in the meantime , congress will ensure that veterans health care is funded . 
we will hold va accountable for its use of these dollars in the performance of its mission . 
over the recess , other committee on veterans ' affairs members , staff , and i will personally visit va health care facilities because there is no substitute for boots-on-the-ground examination . 
i will specifically visit a polytrauma center in minneapolis . 
one of the harshest realities of combat in iraq and afghanistan is the number of servicemembers returning from iraq and afghanistan with loss of limbs and other severe and lasting injuries . 
with the body armor which we are providing to our soldiers , they can turn that up , and what is happening is it protects the torso , and they are having now loss of limbs and traumatic brain injuries . 
va has four regional traumatic brain injury rehabilitation centers . 
one of them is in minneapolis , one is in palo alto , another one is in richmond , and one is in tampa . 
these are very important regional referral centers for individuals who have sustained these serious disabling conditions due to combat . 
vsos and others are saying that these individual veterans are not being seen because of cuts in the va . 
i find that challenging . 
i want to make sure these allegations are correct , so i am going to go on the ground to see if it is true . 
i have also asked the gao to review the va 's budget process , and i think that will be very important for some other eyes on this issue . 
mr. speaker , america 's veterans will receive the health care they have earned . 
$ 1.5 billion is a significant number for an important constituency , and i anticipate that we will act quickly to provide it . 
we can all see that only 2 months remain in the fiscal year . 
unspent funds from this appropriation will be available for their use as down payments on the 2006 budget supplemental so that all funds will be put to good use . 
i would like to thank the gentleman from illinois ( mr. evans ) xz4001260 for his work . 
i would like to thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 for this motion . 
i also commend my colleagues in the senate for their willingness to act quickly to secretary nicholson 's request and to resolve this matter . 
i also want to thank the president , because when this was alerted to everyone 's attention , the president acted and sent over a number . 
he also did the 2006 budget amendment . 
in the end , those of us who exercise great care to raise and support the military know that our obligation does not end upon one 's discharge . 
we care for the wounds and the injuries . 
we care for those who are left behind . 
we care for them to make as whole as possible and to create a climate so that one may take advantage of economic opportunities to live beyond a disability paycheck so that the defenders of liberty may also enjoy the bounties of the liberty for which they fight . 
i urge my colleagues to support the motion to instruct conferees in order to ensure that the veterans ' funding can be done as quickly as possible . 
