mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from florida for yielding me this time . 
i do want to respond to several items that have been made . 
i think the gentleman from florida ( mr. putnam ) xz4003280 just simply pointed out that the motion to recommit can certainly be with instructions to incorporate the amendments that the minority is speaking of . 
but let us take a look at what this bill does . 
the gentleman from massachusetts was pointing out that there was more to this bill than the original bill filed by the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. english ) xz4001230 . 
i might say it , too , that he is absolutely correct because there is a substantial provision in there that was written by the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel ) xz4003330 , the ranking democrat on the committee on ways and means . 
there was also a provision by the gentleman from michigan so this was a conglomeration of a number of bills brought together under the leadership of the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. english ) xz4001230 and brought directly to the floor . 
let us talk about an open rule on a trade bill , something coming out of the committee on ways and means . 
if we bring a bill like this to the floor , there is going to be a feeding frenzy . 
there will be more china bashing than we can ever imagine , and that is not a proper way to bring any trade bill to the floor of the house of representatives . 
i do not recall any trade bill of this sort that has been brought directly to the house with an open rule so that every member can throw in everything and every political speech , as we are hearing today . 
there is another provision that i think we need to really take a close look at . 
the democrats are talking about unilateral sanctions being brought against china . 
that is a violation of the world trade organization . 
and is it not strange that we would be asked to violate the world trade organization provisions by unilateral sanctions , which are in violation of the world trade organization ? 
also , we were talking about intellectual property rights . 
this does require the trade representative to build a case under intellectual property rights . 
this is all being done under the rule of law . 
it is all being done properly . 
it is all being done through the world trade organization . 
this bill addresses many of the problems , if not all of the problems , that we have heard come from the other side of the aisle . 
but it does it in an orderly manner . 
it does it in accordance with law , and it does stick to the principles of the world trade organization , which is something that we subscribe to . 
so i would urge all the members to vote for this rule , vote for the underlying bill . 
the house is not going to close down . 
as chairman of the trade subcommittee , i am sure we are going to be talking about more things having to do with china , and the fact that the minority party does not get all that it wants out of this bill does not mean that they should trash it or that they should vote against it . 
this is an incremental process . 
