mr. speaker , house resolution 387 is a closed rule that provides 1 hour of debate in the house equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the committee on ways and means . 
the rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill and provides that the amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in the committee on rules report accompanying the resolution shall be considered as adopted . 
h. res. 387 also provides one motion to recommit . 
mr. speaker , i rise today in support of this rule and the underlying bill , h.r. 3283 , the united states trade rights enforcement act . 
the legislation passed the house of representatives yesterday by a majority vote of 240 to 186 , but did not garner the necessary two-thirds vote to pass under suspension of the rules . 
over the past 25 years , u.s.-china trade has risen from $ 5 billion to $ 231 billion , and china is now our third largest trading partner . 
in 2001 , china joined the world trade organization by notifying the wto they had formally ratified the wto agreements . 
however , a report released in december of 2004 by the u.s. trade representative stated that while china has worked hard to comply with its wto commitments , they have not always been satisfactory . 
major areas of concern identified in the report included intellectual property rights , agricultural services , industrial policies , trading rights and distribution , and transparency of trade laws . 
this legislation addresses these concerns by creating concrete mechanisms to ensure that china abides by its previous commitments and that we renew our efforts to level the playing field for american manufacturers competing against subsidized chinese goods . 
specifically , the bill would establish a monitoring system to track china 's compliance with its trade obligations on intellectual property rights , market access for u.s. goods , services , and agriculture , and accounting of chinese subsidies so that we open it up and have that transparency that has been lacking to date . 
the system would require that the president issue semiannual reports to congress on china 's progress in meeting these commitments . 
mr. speaker , our domestic goods manufacturers are currently at a disadvantage because they are forced to compete with imported goods subsidized by foreign governments or public entities that can be sold at lower prices . 
h.r. 3283 would apply u.s. countervailing duty law to exports from nonmarket economies , such as china , to give our manufacturers the tools they need here in america to compete with nonmarket economies in those countries . 
the bill also tightens the rules on antidumping duties by requiring cash deposits , and suspending for 3 years the availability of bonds for new shippers in antidumping cases in order to prevent those shippers from defaulting on their obligations . 
h.r. 3283 increases funding for the u.s. trade representative to improve the monitoring and enforcement of u.s. trade agreements , something that we hear about an awful lot on this floor , the lack of enforcement of prior trade agreements . 
this directs the trade representative to make that a priority . 
the bill also authorizes funding for the u.s. international trade commission and requires the commission to conduct a comprehensive study on the sensitivity of u.s. trade and jobs to current policies . 
mr. speaker , in today 's global marketplace , it is vital that trade obligations be enforced and that our manufacturers and producers be allowed to fairly compete in our markets here at home and those abroad . 
i urge my colleagues to support this rule and support the underlying bill . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
