mr. speaker , this bill before us , in a word , is a smoke screen ; and it has so little smoke , let alone any fire , that members can see straight through it . 
at its very best , it is feeble ; at its worse , it disguises what the real problem is . 
the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel ) xz4003330 raised the issue why this is on suspension . 
the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel ) xz4003330 , i , and others introduced legislation , h.r. 3306 . 
and i want to ask the chairman of the subcommittee , the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. english ) xz4001230 , and the gentleman from california ( chairman thomas ) , why not put this bill not on suspension but regular order ? 
why not sit down with democrats , including the gentleman from new york ( mr. they say they are adding provisions adding countervailing duties , but then they add other provisions which make it essentially impossible to work . 
they talk about currency . 
i say to the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. english ) xz4001230 , it is more reports . 
the rangel bill talks about more than reports . 
the rangel bill has a definition of currency manipulation and the ability under 301 to do something about it . 
the rangel bill also recreates super-301 so we will indeed be able to take action and ensures that this administration will take action when china does not meet its commitments . 
this bill should be voted down so that we can have an honest discussion and debate on this floor about the way to handle this problem . 
the gentleman from california ( mr. thomas ) xz4004010 said something about wto violation . 
the bill that the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel ) xz4003330 introduced is completely consistent with our wto obligations . 
so bringing that up is a total dodge . 
this is an effort , i guess , to give some people some cover to vote for another bill . 
we should not be handling our relationships with china in that manipulative a way . 
i urge everybody to vote `` no '' on this bill and give this congress , this house that is supposed to be the people 's house , a chance to discuss this bill with amendments . 
this is another example of the abuse of power by this majority , stifling debate , trying to stuff things through on suspension , 40 minutes , no amendment . 
what is going to happen is , i think , that this bill will be voted down so that we can take an honest , serious look at this problem on a bipartisan basis . 
