mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from florida for yielding to me at this time . 
i will tell my colleagues , if you want to know about defense or intelligence reorganization , education or medical research , i am your guy to tell you what to do . 
trade issues is an interest , but i do not know the ins and outs , but i want to speak as someone who is not on the committee that sees it in a little different way . 
mr. speaker , the vote that we are voting on today , when we talk about amendments , this is the same exact bill that we voted on yesterday in suspension . 
so the same bill , not amendments , the same bill as yesterday , and we are bringing it up today , we had 240 votes . 
china policy . 
i understand while many of my colleagues on the other side , and some on our side , have difficulty with china , it is a very difficult policy . 
is it an opportunity or a threat ? 
china is both . 
they are building su-30s , a russian fighter that destroys our best fighters 90 percent of the time , and the taiwan problem with the submarines and the different trade issues . 
but i would tell my colleagues that spoke against , both republican and democrat presidents , seven presidents supported trade with china . 
are there some jobs in some sectors that are lost ? 
yes . 
and that is where the administration and republicans and democrats need to come together to try and help those sectors that have lost jobs , because in other sectors , jobs have increased , and those presidents , like many members on the floor , feel that the overall policy is good . 
thirdly , there is no magic bill . 
if you look at northern ireland , you look at the middle east , look back when jimmy carter and president clinton started peace talks in the middle east . 
it takes incrementalism , and it is going to take years of working what other presidents started to negotiate and to make this sound policy . 
i do not think they will ever be totally sound , but this is one step , not a magic bill , to make sure that some of those trade agreements are enforced . 
that is a good thing , and that is why we are here today , to vote on the same bill that we voted on yesterday . 
i know my colleagues want amendments , but this is the same bill that 240 people voted for hours ago . 
i would remind people that i went to hanoi , and pete peterson , who is a democrat . 
he invited us to go to vietnam . 
when i was in hanoi , to the minister i said , why will you not get involved with president clinton and trade in vietnam , and he pointed at thousands of bicycles outside his window and he said , congressman , i am a communist . 
he said , if those people have things , i will be out of office . 
so maybe trade is good as a fight against communism , as one small increment . 
that is why these small bills that go forward are impotant . 
my colleagues who have legitimate concerns , especially in their own districts , and we need to work those things out , but this is an important bill , and i ask my colleagues to support the rule and the bill . 
