madam speaker , i rise in opposition to h.r. 3283 , concerning trade with china . 
i join with millions of american workers in saying no to this ill-conceived republican gift to the chinese government . 
this bill does nothing to address the growing unfair trade gap between china and the united states -- an imbalance purchased with china 's exploitation of political prisoners , oppressive jail-like working conditions , child labor , and suppression of basic freedoms . 
products made in china are cheap through the exploitation of the workforce . 
every time we shop , we are driving the nail further into the coffin of american manufacturing jobs . 
this bill does nothing to address artificially low prices . 
it does nothing to stop manipulation of currency to drive the united states further into a trade imbalance . 
it does nothing to save honest american workers from losing their jobs . 
this bill weakens the ability of the united states to apply sanctions against china for unfair trade practices . 
democrats have offered several much stronger proposals to deal with this issue , and the republicans have refused to let them come to the floor . 
not a single one has been considered . 
to help u.s. workers , farmers and businesses , and america 's long-term economic security , congress should take decisive action to bring about fair trade with china , instead of squandering this opportunity on a weak republican bill . 
if congress wants to take real action , it should pass comprehensive legislation to end currency manipulation ; allow u.s. companies to challenge subsidized imports from china ; and fix china safeguard statute and other import remedies to protect u.s. manufacturers against surges and other unfair imports from china . 
i support american workers in saying , let 's combat china 's unfair trade practices by providing us with the tools to save american jobs . 
it is an insult to american workers that , in the same week that congress is considering cafta , it is bringing forth a weak china trade compromise bill . 
this demonstrates the majority 's anti-worker agenda , that gives priority to chinese workers instead of american jobs . 
