mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel ) xz4003330 for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , normally the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. english ) xz4001230 and i are on the same side when it comes to antidumping and countervailing duty bills . 
both of us have a strong desire to make sure that our antidumping laws and countervailing duty laws are enforced , particularly as it relates to our manufacturing industries . 
we differ on this bill . 
this bill purports to move forward and clarify the use of countervailing duty remedies against nonmarket economies , but it establishes two new loopholes that will make it difficult for industry to get relief . 
it is already difficult for industry to get relief . 
this bill will make it more difficult . 
i find it difficult how people can understand our debate here today . 
these are very complicated issues talking about double counting . 
i would like to have a debate with the gentleman from pennsylvania ( mr. english ) xz4001230 in regards to problems of double counting . 
these are complex issues . 
this bill is on the suspension calendar . 
we can not even offer any amendments or substitutes . 
we are limited to 40 minutes of debate . 
that is not the way we should be talking about a major issue concerning our relationships with nonmarket economies and our trading rules . 
this bill does address some specific issues , but does not address the problems . 
as it deals with countervailing duties , it creates two new problems for cases to be filed . 
in regard to currency manipulation by china , an issue that many of us have talked about on this floor , what does this bill do , it sets up another study by the treasury department . 
we already know what they are going to do . 
they have already reported back to us . 
we need action . 
in regard to the use of safeguards , no action in this bill . 
international property violations , no action in this bill . 
in regards to the loophole chinese exporters have to avoid paying duties , it provides a temporary 3-year provision rather than permanently fixing the action . 
despite what the gentleman from pennsylvania said , there is no new money in this bill in order to enforce our laws . 
we have already gone through the appropriation process what this bill purports to do through the suspension calendar . 
mr. speaker , we should be able to consider h.r. 3306 introduced by the gentleman from new york ( mr. rangel ) xz4003330 . 
that bill would fix the countervailing duty problems we have with nonmarket economies such as china . 
it would allow us to take action against chinese manipulation of currency . 
it would allow action to be taken in regards to the safeguards that we have negotiated with china on the wto accession agreement . 
it would provide permanent relief in regards to the loophole that chinese exporters are currently using to avoid duties . 
that is the legislation we should be able to consider , at least through amendment , but we can not because of the process that is being used here . 
the bottom line is this legislation actually creates more problems in industry being able to bring antidumping or countervailing duty actions , and we should not be making it more difficult . 
it is already too difficult for industries to get the type of relief that they desire . 
we should have a full and open debate on our relationship with nonmarket economies . 
this legislation does not allow us to do it . 
i urge my colleagues to reject the suspension . 
