madam speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
one of the major reasons why we are opposing this bill is because of the process . 
clearly a bill is supposed to be brought to this floor when it has overwhelming support , when it is a simple bill , naming a post office , having a stamp , declaring mothers as being essential for parenthood , things that republicans and democrats can look up at the scoreboard and see that we have 435 members or close to it supporting it . 
how can anyone perceive , as one of the members on the other side said , the most important trade legislation that we ever had will be put on just for 40 minutes debate ? 
the qualities that exist in the english bill , we have been able to see some loopholes . 
he and i would want to work together to close those loopholes . 
all the members of the committee on ways and means feels the same way about trying to do something to contain the overreaching of china . 
what makes the other side believe that we democrats are not entitled to participate in the substantive nature of sensitive , complex legislation ? 
putting this on the suspension calendar , in my opinion , is an insult to members on both sides of the aisle and is an insult to those people who oversight what we do , because the suspension calendar means that we never thought that they would ever have a problem with it , and that is why we did not share what is in this bill . 
i also think that it is really unfair to have the members of congress to believe that this bill comes to the floor because of its importance and therefore has to be passed on the suspension calendar . 
we have plenty of time to work in the committee on ways and means in dealing with this so that we can be proud that we do not have a rangel bill or an english bill or a republican bill or a democratic bill . 
the pride should come when we have a congressional bill which we can say both sides have an opportunity to hear witnesses ; to see what the impact is going to be , whether it is going to work or not work ; to see whether those who have fought to put checks on china feel satisfied that we have done it ; and to be able to say to foreigners that we may have differences among ourselves , political differences , but when it comes to trade policy , we speak with one voice . 
the flag is up , and we speak for the united states of america . 
so i recognize how important it is to pass the dr-cafta bill . 
i recognize that there is a problem because democrats were not involved and republicans can not get the votes . 
but i do not know how many suspension bills they are going to bring in as an excuse to get members to say , i got them to talk about china , and therefore i am going to vote for cafta . 
it is not enough to talk about china and the problems that we face . 
what we should be doing is bringing these issues up in the committee that has jurisdiction , and we are so proud of it , and to make certain that the best we can is to have this as a bipartisan effort on both sides . 
so this is not the first time that the committees of jurisdiction have had to have members bypassed in terms of their input , bypassed in terms of the ability to have amendments , and bypassed in terms of saying that we have to find some way to find some bill that we can get bipartisanship on it . 
the vehicle to do this normally , from the record of the congress , are the suspension bills . 
but trade bills should not be on the suspension calendar . 
