mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and my goal here is to make a point , not to make an enemy . 
mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to the rule and in strong opposition to the boustany amendment and to add my name to the chorus of religious individuals and organizations that oppose this ill-conceived and harmful amendment . 
as an ordained minister of the united methodist church , i recognize the important role faith-based organizations play in providing educational , health , and social support services to low-income children and their parents . 
the faith-based community has long played an active role in operating head start programs and has done so while upholding the constitution and civil rights standards . 
by the faith community , we have been able to provide all kinds of services . 
in fact , my first job after college was working in catholic charities , which received tens of millions of federal dollars to run programs . 
mr. speaker , this is not only bad policy ; this is bad theology . 
in my religious tradition , we give great recognition to the apostle paul , who said : `` there is neither greek nor jew , circumcision nor uncircumcision , barbarian , scythian , bond nor free , '' and it goes on to say : `` put on , therefore , as the elect of god , holy and beloved , tender mercies , kindness , humbleness of mind , meekness , long suffering. '' that is not in this amendment . 
proponents of this amendment claim it is necessary to protect religious freedom . 
i will tell you now , as a pastor , that i take offense at that claim . 
how is religious freedom served when we force a teacher to choose between her faith and her job ? 
how is it religious freedom when we tell children that they can lose their teacher because she or he is from the wrong faith ? 
how is it religious freedom when we frustrate the laws of the land ? 
and make no mistake , should this amendment pass , the children served by head start , those most at risk , would be the ones who suffer . 
tens of thousands of children currently in head start could lose their teachers to whom they have bonded . 
and their parents could be denied the chance to climb out of poverty by moving from head start , discriminating against current and potential teachers because of religion , causing children to lose one of the most important adults in their lives , denying parents the chance to elevate themselves out of poverty . 
there is no doubt in my mind that these things are not only harmful , they are immoral . 
this is not good for america . 
this body has no business undoing prohibitions against bigotry . 
churches have been seen historically as a citadel for justice , a place of peace , a place of racial harmony . 
this can be seen as a subterfuge for bigotry . 
when someone comes to the st . 
james united methodist church , which i pastor , they know that they are going to be considered for employment based on their qualifications and there is no subterfuge for bigotry . 
