mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i thank the gentleman from louisiana ( mr. boustany ) xz4006360 for offering this important amendment . 
unfortunately , with the hurricane moving now somewhat east of where it was , he decided to return to his district in central and southwestern louisiana . 
so he is not here today , and i offer the amendment in his place . 
faith-based organizations such as churches , synagogues , and charities are an essential fabric of local communities across america . 
this amendment will correct a flaw in the federal head start law that has stripped these organizations of their hiring rights , forcing them to relinquish their civil liberties if they choose to participate in federal early childhood programs that are poised to be reauthorized today . 
we have had this debate many times before here on the house floor . 
in fact , earlier this year we rejected , in a bipartisan fashion , an amendment that would have barred faith-based organizations from providing job training services in their own communities . 
unfortunately , each time we have had this debate , opponents of faith-based groups ' federally protected right to maintain their religious nature and character through those they hire have equated these civil liberties with discrimination . 
the 1964 civil rights act makes clear that faith-based groups may serve their communities without being forced to give up their right to employ individuals who share the tenets and practices of their faith . 
were the authors of the civil rights act pro-discrimination ? 
no . 
the united states supreme court in 1987 unanimously reaffirmed the hiring rights for faith-based organizations . 
was the supreme court pro-discrimination ? 
no . 
former president bill clinton signed four laws explicitly allowing faith-based groups to staff on a religious basis when they receive federal funds : the 1996 welfare reform law , the 1998 community services block grant act , the 2000 community renewal tax relief act , and the 2000 substance abuse and mental health services administration act . 
was president clinton pro-discrimination ? 
no . 
the amendment we are considering today is offered in the same spirit as the 1964 civil rights act , the 1987 supreme court decision , and each of the four laws signed into law by president bill clinton . 
our nation 's head start students deserve to be served by the very best organizations willing to lend a helping hand , and if those organizations are not faith based , so be it . 
but if they are , the faith and values that motivate them to serve their neighbors should not be held against them . 
considering the proven track record of faith-based providers in meeting the needs of our nation , efforts we are seeing in action right now in the gulf coast region , why would we want to deny them the opportunity to make a difference in the lives of head start students ? 
president bush has worked tirelessly to remove barriers that needlessly discourage faith-based groups from bringing their talents and compassion to federal initiatives that help americans in need . 
countless times he has called on congress to send him `` the same language protecting religious hiring that president clinton signed on four other occasions. '' this amendment answers the president 's call once again . 
we should not be denying compassionate , professional faith-based providers the opportunity to serve our children , and i want to urge my colleagues to vote `` yes '' on this amendment . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
