mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
we just heard some explosive rhetoric . 
let me boil this down . 
this amendment really stands for two simple basic principles : number one , that those who are in need should have the right to receive vital services from the most effective source in the most effective way possible . 
that should be their right as americans . 
now , in the vast majority of cases that is going to be a public entity , but in some cases and in some places it might just be a faith-based organization . 
it might be a faith-based organization , it might be a religious organization , that is the most effective choice for those in need , that family in need , those children in need . 
should they not have the right to those services in the most effective way ? 
secondly , the second basic principle is if it is a faith-based organization that is providing those services and participating in the program , they should not have to surrender their religious character merely because they choose to try to help out . 
that is what this is really all about . 
these organizations that are trying to reach out , that are taking a chance to help provide these services because they see people in need , the government should not say to them if they are going to help out , i am sorry , they have to surrender much of their religious character . 
i think that is wrong . 
let me be very clear . 
if we fail to adopt this amendment and fail to protect the rights of these faith-based organizations to retain their religious character in such things as hiring , it is not these groups that will suffer . 
they are not making money . 
they are not profiting by serving as head start providers . 
it will be our neediest children ; it will be our families who participate in head start . 
those will be the ones who suffer . 
let us adopt this amendment and stand for the principle that kids need help and they should be able to get it in the most effective way possible . 
