mr. chairman , today i am a member of congress . 
prior to ever being elected to office and serving in the state legislature or congress , i worked 6 years for head start . 
i started as assistant teacher , and i went on to be the supervisor of parent involvement and volunteer services . 
i love head start , and i have a great appreciation for what my government has done in creating this program to give poor kids and the kids of working families an opportunity to get a head start , to get prepared for kindergarten and to get prepared for success . 
that is what head start has been doing . 
not only does head start build self-esteem , it prepares children to read and get ready for the educational experience . 
it teaches parents to appreciate their children 's work . 
it teaches parents that they can have involvement in their children 's educational destiny . 
this is a wonderful program . 
i think the committee did a good job in working through some of the problems . 
i do not agree with everything , but i would support this bill . 
but i am absolutely shocked and surprised that my colleague that i came into this congress with would lead an effort to kill head start . 
the gentleman knows he is killing head start by putting this amendment on the floor to put religious involvement in the program . 
a faith-based initiative has no place in head start . 
head start teaches children to respect each other , to enjoy each other , to respect all cultures . 
on sunday morning in america , religion is the most segregated sector of our society . 
whites go to white churches , blacks go to black churches , greeks go to greek churches , muslims are in their mosque , jews are in their synagogue ; and that is all right . 
we have religious freedom . 
people go to whatever church they want . 
but do not bring that to head start . 
allow head start to be what it should be for all americans . 
do not say to people because you are a different faith , you can not work in this head start program . 
we do not want to give that kind of example to our children . 
do not start the resegregation of america , it is wrong . 
and do not do this to head start . 
