mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. chairman , i am offering this amendment on behalf of the gentleman from mississippi ( mr. thompson ) xz4004032 who is unable to be here this afternoon . 
mr. chairman , this amendment will help some of the most vulnerable victims of hurricane katrina , the children . 
as a result of hurricane katrina , many families have been displaced from their homes and their schools . 
this amendment allows displaced families to enroll their children under the age of 5 in head start . 
in mississippi , 44 head start centers were impacted by hurricane katrina , 18 centers will be closed indefinitely , and 26 more are in need of repair . 
approximately 26 , 743 children within the state of the gentleman from mississippi ( mr. thompson ) xz4004032 are eligible for head start services prior to hurricane katrina . 
in the aftermath , the number is expected to double . 
in the neighboring state of louisiana , 117 centers were impacted , 83 remain closed , and 34 centers are providing partial services . 
in alabama , 9 centers were impacted , 3 centers will be closed indefinitely , and 6 are in need of repair . 
this amendment provides a waiver for 6 months for those families that do not have proof of immunizations and income levels to participate in the head start program . 
this 6-month waiver authority also permits the secretary of health and human services to waive the 20 percent local head start match requirement . 
this amendment directs the secretary to provide technical assistance , guidance , and resources which permits agencies to provide head start services to children who have been affected by the hurricane . 
the total number of head start children affected by hurricane katrina is approximately 18 , 000 . 
since the devastation of hurricane katrina , more families are now head start eligible . 
if you want families to come back and restore their communities , their children need to be safe and healthy in environments where they can learn and play . 
i understand and appreciate that the majority will accept this amendment and i think that is wonderful . 
i hope that the majority will also join us in the coming days to appropriate supplemental funds for these same children . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
