mr. speaker , i oppose the rule because it allows the boustany amendment . 
let us be clear . 
first of all , faith-based organizations sponsor head start programs now . 
they have and they will continue to . 
my own church hosted a head start program . 
they sponsor the programs , just like everybody else , on a level playing field . 
they have to use the money for head start and they can not discriminate in employment . 
any organization that can sponsor a head start program under that amendment can do it anyway if they agree not to discriminate . 
we are talking just about discrimination . 
we are not talking about allowing groups to sponsor head start programs . 
we are talking about allowing them to discriminate in employment with the federal money . 
now they can still discriminate with the church money , just not with the federal money . 
this discussion really represents a profound change in civil rights discussions , because there was a time traditionally if an employer had a problem with somebody 's religion , the employer has a problem because the weight of the federal government would come down supporting the victim . 
now we are talking about what rights the group has to discriminate against the victim . 
if we are talking about religion , we are also talking about race because if you can discriminate based on religion , some religions are virtually all white , others virtually all black . 
so if you can discriminate based on religion , you can discriminate based on race . 
where is your moral authority to tell somebody with their private money what they can do and can not do , if you are going to turn around and allow people to discriminate with federal money ? 
mr. speaker , that is wrong and a rule that allows that is wrong . 
there used to be a time when parents would have to describe to their children why they could not eat at the lunch counter , why they had to sit in the back of the bus , why they could not get a job at certain firms . 
and now we are going to have to have parents tell children why they could not get a job at the head start program while their neighbors could get a job at the head start program . 
i want to remind members that any organization can sponsor the federally funded head start program now if they agree not to discriminate . 
we do not need to turn the clock back , and we also do not need a rule that allows this to ruin the head start program . 
