mr. chairman , today we are debating whether or not we should repeal civil rights provisions in head start reauthorization , and allow religious organizations that use federal funding to discriminate in hiring and firing based on an individual 's religious beliefs . 
in a time when we are forcefully trying to persuade other countries to include protections against religious discrimination in their constitutions , it is astounding that we are here , in the united states congress , trying to repeal these same protections for our own citizens . 
as a practicing ordained minister , i find the boustany amendment to be unnecessary , unwise , and unproductive . 
the boustany amendment would allow religious organizations to waive civil rights protections that nonreligious organizations must abide by . 
the provisions that currently govern head start have been in place and have been working effectively for decades . 
religious organizations operate over 5 percent of all head start programs , abiding by the civil rights provisions , and there is no need for congress to take this unprecedented step that mr. boustany xz4006360 is proposing . 
never before has congress ever repealed existing civil rights protections by adopting an amendment on the house floor , without the benefit of committee hearings , debate , or expert testimony . 
in fact , h.r. 2123 , the school readiness act , passed through the education and the workforce committee by a bipartisan , unanimous 48-0 vote . 
now , some members of congress are attempting to sabotage this bill by attaching this unconstitutional , divisive amendment to it . 
maybe this is a way for members who are against head start anyway , to try and derail the program . 
mr. boustany xz4006360 knows that democrats will note vote for an amendment that allows federally funded organizations to discriminate against any americans on any grounds . 
republicans are trying to make us choose between early childcare for our neediest students and civil rights protections for the rest of our citizens . 
i wonder what the real motivation is behind bringing up this amendment . 
it is truly a shame that members of this house are playing politics with a bill that affects millions of our young children , and which millions of americans have come to trust and rely on . 
no , mr. speaker , i will not vote for a bill that repeals civil rights protections . 
i will not vote for federally funded discrimination . 
it is unconscionable that members of congress would try to reverse the progress that we have made on civil rights in this country . 
what message are we sending to the rest of the world , including the newly-established democracies struggling to find a balance between religious freedom and civil liberties in their own laws and constitutions ? 
adopting the boustany amendment will send our country in the wrong direction . 
this is just another example of where the republican leadership wants to take our country , and i hope all our citizens are watching carefully . 
i urge a `` no '' vote on the boustany amendment . 
