mr. speaker , as we consider the rule , i want to speak on some important amendments that are going to come up to provide important protections for religious organizations . 
if we do not insert these important protections for these organizations , we will be dictating to them whom they can or can not hire . 
we must maintain the integrity of religious entities . 
the constitution of the united states explicitly states that congress shall make no law prohibiting the free exercise of religion . 
not allowing our churches , mosques , and synagogues to hire people of like mind and similar beliefs is not only an affront to their very core but contrary to this great nation 's constitution . 
i am proud to be an american for so many reasons , first among them because i am able to think , speak , and believe whatever i want freely , as stated in the first amendment to our constitution . 
denying religious organizations the ability to hire an employee because of his or her beliefs is to take away that employee 's right to think , speak , and believe as he or she so chooses . 
we are not talking about allowing religious organizations to brainwash children to think as they do . 
we are talking about allowing religious organizations simply to be able to provide the same services and programs as nonreligious organizations . 
our children deserve the very best education ; and if a religious organization is going to provide that education better , then we must not stand in the way . 
are we going to deny many of the poorest and less fortunate children the opportunity to learn in these early childhood education programs simply because it is a church that is administering it ? 
this is about our children , and denying them exemplary services just because the organization providing them happens to be a religious one is just cruel . 
i think we all know firsthand the impact that our churches have and how much they contribute to our communities across the nation . 
and we all know how much they give back to their communities . 
this nation is second to none in charitable giving and at helping others in need . 
this is not just a religious tenet , but an american principle . 
we need to support this rule . 
