mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , there is a time and place for everything we do . 
if this rule is passed , there will be a 30-minute time and place to discuss the details of the specific amendment which has been referred to several times . 
i hope saying there is a time and place for that , and i apologize since i am paraphrasing from a faith-based piece of literature , and if it would be more profitable i could say i am paraphrasing from a popular song of the counterculture of the 1960s , and i am sure that would absolve anyone with 9th and 10th circuit concerns . 
but let me say just one particular word , and i appreciate the comments that have been made so far . 
mr. speaker , what we are talking about is the rule on if an amendment should be debated , which is far different than actually debating the amendment itself . 
since the minority has jumped over that line and tried to go into the amendment itself , let me say a couple of things about it , and i appreciate the comments from the gentleman from texas . 
i served as a missionary from my church for a couple of years . 
i am used to people asking me those questions , so if the gentleman has got more , he should . 
although when you put the discrimination , if the gentleman put my religion first instead of the end of the line , it would have been nicer . 
i also was a school teacher , and i realize in the article the gentleman quoted from the constitution i was an officer of public office and trust . 
what we are talking about here is simply whether a church who is organized should be able to hire members of their church to work for their church . 
that is a concept which has been upheld in statute by this body . 
it is a concept which has been upheld by the courts . 
should the state be able to compel a church to hire somebody outside of that church to work for that church : that is the question . 
then the issue is once you have decided that , and it has been decided by both the courts and the legislature , can we allow those people to help kids ? 
what we are talking about is if we can help kids and how best we can help kids . 
the entire purpose of this act is to try and focus academic efforts to try and make sure that kids are prepared to enter the school system , and are there groups that can help kids . 
we should not put some kind of artificial barrier in front of groups that can help kids from actually doing that , especially when they are functioning under the rules that we have established and have been upheld by the courts . 
this debate is going to be extremely lively during its proper time and place during the debate on the floor when the amendment is presented . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
