mr. chairman , i rise in support of this bill , though i have concerns about one specific provision that would go too far to allow discrimination . 
the basic tenet of head start is as true today as it was a generation ago -- quality early education programs can be instrumental in helping children overcome barriers to learning . 
this program not only plays an important role in providing opportunities for the next generation but also has an important impact on our economy . 
for every dollar spent on head start , we receive seven dollars back . 
there are few federal programs that can boost that kind of success . 
as a nation we must ensure that our children are prepared , academically , emotionally and nutritionally to enter school . 
removing the outside forces that result in under-prepared students opens up children 's minds to learn and gain an education . 
head start is one of the most important programs in our government and i am pleased to see this bill come to the floor with bipartisan support . 
unfortunately , i have concerns about an amendment passed by this body that allows faith-based head start grantees to discriminate in hiring based on religion . 
federally supported programs should never support discrimination in its programs on any level . 
since head starts inception in 1972 it has never discriminated in hiring for faith based and other organizations . 
there is no need to start now . 
i was pleased the house did not adopt an amendment offered by ms. musgrave that would allow for-profit head start providers to collect federal funds as profit . 
while for-profit head start grantees play an important role in school readiness , i do not support allowing them to collect a profit from federal grants provided to serve low-income students . 
any savings from funds designated for administrative costs should go towards serving the needs of these low-income students . 
this amendment provides the wrong type of incentive for head start grantees . 
while this bill is not perfect , there are many provisions that will provide needed and worthwhile reforms to head start . 
head start has proven to be a successful program and this bill will largely make it even more successful and efficient . 
so mr. chairman , i am voting in favor of this bill . 
