mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition to the amendment offered by the gentleman from louisiana . 
this amendment betrays our core values by permitting , for the first time in the history of the head start program , religious discrimination in hiring . 
it allows taxpayer funds to be used in head start programs that discriminate against teachers and parent volunteers solely because of their religious beliefs . 
the bill does so by eliminating existing law that has , since head start 's beginning , protected the people who teach our children against this most reprehensible form of discrimination . 
religious discrimination in employment or the imposition of religious tests for federally funded employment in violation of the constitution is reprehensible and an affront to our first freedom . 
nobody should be able to hang out a sign that says no catholics or jews , no protestants , no lutherans , no whoever may apply for this federally funded job . 
every religious denomination in this country can run a head start program and has . 
every religious denomination can run programs and has . 
no one says they can not discriminate in who the minister is or they do not want women as ministers or , for that matter , as janitors , but not with those positions funded by the federal government . 
that is what this amendment would breach . 
that is what is obnoxious . 
that is why it should be defeated . 
we have heard terrible allegations from the other side of the aisle , and from the administration alleging , during the recent confirmation hearings for judge roberts , that certain members of the other body have hung a sign on the federal courts saying `` no catholics need apply. '' while i continue to believe that this slur against conscientious catholic members of the other body is blatantly false and slanderous , those making the charge , including the president and our colleagues on the other side of the aisle , seem to understand that religious discrimination in employment , or the imposition of a religious test for federally funded employment in violation of the constitution , is reprehensible and an affront to our first freedom . 
i only wish they would apply that same principle to the people who teach our children . 
head start is an exceptional program that serves nearly one million children and their families . 
we know from experience that it works and works well , helping our children succeed educationally . 
instead of promoting religious discrimination , we should be standing up for families and for our most vulnerable children by providing the necessary resources and accountability , to ensure that all children who qualify for the head start program can participate and succeed . 
it is time to match the rhetoric with action and leave no child behind . 
it is time to make good on the promise of this nation that we are all created equal , that all children are entitled to a decent education , and that no one should ever have to decide between a job helping our children and their religious faith . 
no child was ever helped by governmentally funded and endorsed religious discrimination . 
that is not what this country is about , and it is not befitting of a nation dedicated to liberty and justice for all . 
i urge my colleagues to reject this amendment , to stand up for our values of religious equality . 
