mr. chairman , we are all grateful to our troops and those serving in iraq . 
we are grateful for what we are seeing happening there , and we want to do what we can to support those efforts and make sure that our troops have what they need . 
but every time when i go home , no matter what the subject is that we are talking about in any meeting , the thing that always comes up is the deficit . 
somebody always says , `` but what are you doing about the deficit ? 
`` my concern with the embassy being in the supplemental is exactly that , it is over and above the regular process . 
i have no problem with building an embassy in iraq . 
we need an embassy in iraq , but we have also known we need an embassy in iraq , and why did it not come through earlier if it is that much of an emergency . 
yes , it is a huge amount of money and i understand it is not just a building , it is a compound , but it is three times what we have spent in afghanistan already . 
if we do not start getting some discipline in this body in what we are doing , we are never going to get back to where we all want to be , and that is what we did in 1997 was start to balance the budget , and we were well on the way . 
sure , we have had a lot of problems . 
we had the war , the recession , other problems which have interfered with that , but we have to have some fiscal discipline and just putting things that are not actual emergencies in a supplemental spending bill in my opinion is not to be done . 
a supplemental is for emergencies and i do not consider an embassy to be an emergency . 
my constituents at home agree with this . 
as i said before , whenever i am anywhere they always say what are you doing about cutting spending , what are you doing about the deficit ? 
i hope we can bring this embassy back through regular order and make it happen because we want to be sure the people are protected , and then pass the supplemental today . 
the other things in the supplemental are needed . 
there is no question about that . 
our chairman has done a very , very good job with this bill , but i have a problem with funding the embassy in a supplemental . 
