i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , i want to address a number of numbers here . 
this is a little bit about numbers , and one of them is that 121 organizations that we heard about , as if they were the ones that should obstruct the safety of 282 million americans whose lives are at risk . 
another number , 19 terrorist hijackers , 19 . 
nineteen of them with 63 , another number , 63 valid driver 's licenses in their possession . 
any one of those driver 's licenses got them anything they needed to do in america , full rights of citizenship for that matter , and get on board any airplane . 
and another number , 3 , 000 dead americans . 
and what have we done to close the door ? 
anything ? 
have we even said `` no '' to the 121 organizations that say , leave the door wide open , keep us at risk because somehow or another there is some kind of tone here that we object to ? 
we think something is in your heart . 
we need to close this door . 
and what have we done ? 
we have made it harder for terrorists to get on airplanes with razor blades . 
we spent millions of dollars on metal detectors and millions of dollars expanding tsa and putting federal employees in place , and we put millions of people in long lines waiting to get through . 
so it is a little harder for them ; they have to stand in line with the rest of us . 
stand in line with the rest of us where i stand , where i see a 75-year-old lady going through a spread-eagle search while the young middle eastern male waltzes through with a smirk on his face , and we can not close that door . 
this bill does some of that , not all of that , but it will be the first thing that will keep the 19-type terrorist hijackers off our airplanes , keep them out of our airplanes , out of our automobiles and provide a measure of safety and security for the american people . 
it is not enough , but it is the barest of common sense , and it must move through this congress , and it must move through this congress right now , today . 
