mr. speaker , i rise sadly to oppose the emergency supplemental because of the horrific and ill-advised immigration provisions and the lack of oversight that has been given to the provisions in this section . 
i hope we will have an opportunity to address this in a comprehensive manner . 
mr. speaker , i rise today very conflicted over a piece of vital legislation for which this entire body should really be in solidarity . 
the conference report on h.r. 1268 provides for emergency fy2005 funds for military operations in iraq and afghanistan , tsunami relief efforts , foreign assistance programs and domestic homeland security priorities . 
however , this legislation also includes an insidious section with provisions of h.r. 418 , the real id act , which has nothing to do with what should be the real intent of this emergency supplemental . 
instead of being united on issues of national security and international relations , we are put in a divisive situation with the provisions of the real id act . 
the issues of importance addressed by this emergency supplemental do not give rise to a need to include provisions from h.r. 418 , the real id act -- legislation for which congress has not held a legislative hearing , markup , nor full debate in the house . 
just last year , our colleagues on the other side of the aisle attempted to force these provisions in the context of the 9/11 intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act , h.r. 10 . 
the sponsor of the real id act 's driver 's license provisions would have gone far beyond the scope of the 9/11 commission recommendations . 
the 9/11 commission did not suggest that the standards should be federally mandated without state participation , that a database should be created to share personal identification information , that undocumented immigrants should be prevented from getting licenses or that non-citizens should get an identifiably different driver 's license . 
finally , none of the real id act sponsor 's provisions have been reviewed by the congress or the commission . 
there have been no hearings or debates on these significant changes to existing law . 
the immigration provisions that have been forced into this supplemental include numerous provisions restricting the grant of asylum `` protection , imposing onerous new driver 's license requirements on the states , making it easier to deport legal immigrants , waiving all federal laws concerning the construction of fences and barriers anywhere within the united states , and denying immigrants long-standing habeas corpus rights . 
the usa patriot act , for which we in the subcommittee on crime , terrorism , and homeland security of the judiciary are only now holding hearings in piecemeal form , already barred terrorists from receiving asylum protection in the united states . 
none of the people associated with recent attacks , or plans for terrorist attacks in the u.s. , were here under grants of asylum . 
instead , these changes will make it harder for people legitimately fleeing persecution to prove their asylum claims and gain protection here . 
bona fide refugees who can not meet the higher standards will be returned to countries where they were persecuted , possibly to face terror , torture and death . 
the forced provisions will set a dangerous legal precedent by requiring the government to waive all federal , state and local laws to build barriers and fences to deter illegal entry into the united states . 
this waiver would require violating laws that protect sacred native american burial sites , important environmental regions , and the wages of laborers . 
yet this policy is unnecessary . 
in the 9-11 act , we passed language to develop and implement a comprehensive plan for the systematic surveillance of the southwest border by remotely piloted aircraft and other electronic means . 
we can preserve our legal rights and regimes and still secure our nation . 
the great majority of this emergency supplemental , a sum of $ 75.9 billion goes towards u.s. military operations in iraq and afghanistan . 
in this conference report 's military spending total of $ 75.9 billion includes $ 37.1 billion for military operations and maintenance spending , $ 17.4 billion for personnel , and $ 17.4 billion for new weapons procurement . 
i am very pleased to say that this conference report increases the military death gratuity to $ 100 , 000 , from $ 12 , 420 , and increases subsidized life insurance benefits to $ 400 , 000 , from $ 250 , 000 , for families of soldiers who died or were killed while on active duty beginning from oct . 
7 , 2001 . 
i can not describe how fundamental it is that we take care of our armed forces and their loved ones . 
this conference report addresses some of the concerns that democrats have had about the fact that the families of soldiers who were killed while on active duty were not being given the necessary funds to provide for themselves . 
in addition , this conference report provides $ 308 million more than requested for add-on vehicle armor kits ; large increases for new trucks ; added funds for night-vision equipment ; and $ 60 million in unrequested funds for radio jammers to disrupt attempts by iraqi insurgents as i stated there are many provisions of this emergency supplemental in which this body can be united in agreement . 
one such issue is the tsunami relief provided in this emergency supplemental . 
the conference report before us today appropriates $ 907 million in direct assistance for tsunami disaster relief for countries affected by the dec . 
26 , 2004 , earthquake and tsunami . 
in addition , this measure also provides $ 226 million to reimburse the u.s. military for expenses incurred in providing emergency relief to the tsunami victims , and $ 25 million to build and deploy 35 new tsunami-detection buoys in the pacific , atlantic , the caribbean and the gulf of mexico to provide warning to communities of approaching tsunamis . 
i had the opportunity to see the damage caused by the tsunami when i visited sri lanka with my colleagues led by mr. crowley shortly after the tsunami disaster . 
i had the opportunity to visit with usaid personnel who were there trying to aid the sri lankan people in rebuilding their nation . 
i have to say the attitude of our american personel and the smiles they brought to the face of the sri lankan people would make every member of this congress very proud . 
we talk about public diplomacy with the international world and i firmly believe that the funds appropriated here along with the work of our personnel on the ground help make a great case for the goodness of our nation . 
i am also similarly pleased that about $ 400 million in this conference report will go towards humanitarian assistance in darfur , sudan . 
i recently had the opportunity to visit refugee camps in neighboring chad where thousands of sudanese in darfur have fled to escape the conflict . 
needless to say , i was able to confirm from eyewitness accounts that the conflict in darfur is indeed even more shocking and deeply disturbing in its viciousness than has been reported to us . 
we as a nation must stand against such brutality and the funds in this emergency supplemental will help to ease the suffering of those involved in this conflict . 
in addition , this conference report includes $ 920 million for all peacekeeping programs , many of which are in sudan . 
however , while i have always been a strong again , i am in general support of the goals proposed by h.r. 1268 , but i am troubled by the implications of the supplemental appropriations measure that this body is poised to pass that relate to immigration policy . 
the underlying legislation proposes to fund important needs that pertain to operation iraqi freedom ; operation enduring freedom , in afghanistan ; army and marine corps restructuring ; recapitalization and replacement of equipment ; and replenishment of cash balances in certain working capital funds . 
in truth , this emergency supplemental funds many needed priorities , but it is the one issue of the real id act , which is not a priority , that poisons this legislation . 
