mr. speaker , i rise in support of the conference report . 
and i would like to take a few minutes to express my support with some provisions included in the foreign operations chapter of this supplemental bill . 
first and foremost , i am pleased that we have finally appropriated funding to address the earthquake and tsunami that devastated asia . 
the images of destruction , parents separated from their children , whole villages flattened and emptied , livelihoods washed away , touched the american people deeply and brought out the most generous and humanitarian impulses in us all . 
i am disappointed , however , that it has taken congress so long to respond officially on behalf of the united states , but i am happy that we finally have a robust package of aid to offer affected nations . 
i want to thank chairman kolbe , senators mcconnell and leahy for responding to my request to ensure that the needs of women and children around the world are addressed in this supplemental . 
of the $ 656 million included in the bill for tsunami-related assistance , over 200 million will be dedicated to directly meet the needs of women and children , and much of the remainder of those funds will be of indirect benefit through the restoration of infrastructure needed , such as new schools and roads . 
the bill also makes a strong statement about u.s. support for a peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict . 
it provides 200 million to help the palestinian people improve their economic situation . 
i also want to thank chairman kolbe and my colleagues in the senate for agreeing to provide most of the $ 100 million added by the house for emergency needs in africa outside of sudan . 
unfortunately , the horrible tragedy in sudan has meant the diversion of funds needed to address ongoing problems in the democratic republic of the congo , liberia , ethiopia , and uganda . 
this 100 million , along with additional funds for public law 480 food aid , will go a long way toward easing the pain and hunger expressed by many women and children throughout africa . 
while i have deep concerns about other provisions included in other sections of this supplemental , i am pleased with the shape of the foreign operations section . 
i believe it goes a long way toward fulfilling our many commitments around the world . 
