i thank the gentleman from texas ( mr. sessions ) xz4003670 for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , i do rise to address support for the rule and the underlying legislation and , specifically , a few of the allegations that have been made about this legislation . 
first of all , there has been an allegation made that this violates states ' rights . 
many of us are firm believers and supporters of states ' rights , and the fact is , the states have the right to give a driver 's license to whomever they wish . 
that is their state 's right . 
however , this legislation says , if you are going to use that identification card to get on transportation that is in interstate commerce or otherwise , then it is going to have to meet certain minimum standards . 
so you have the states ' rights . 
however , this federal government has the obligation to protect its citizens , and it is something that should not and will not be taken lightly . 
as regards another aspect , asylum , we have a situation in which a legislative body , as it has come to be , that is also known as the ninth circuit court of appeals , has enacted legislation that overcomes and overwhelms a judge 's right and ability to judge credibility as it should . 
that has to be overcome by this legislative body , trumping that legislative body called the ninth circuit . 
that is what we are trying to do . 
i have heard friends across the aisle say that americans have journeyed freely in the past and that this goes against the very freedoms which this nation was founded on . 
but the truth is , try getting on an airplane . 
we do not have freedom anymore . 
and the more liberties that we forgo withdrawing at the border , and restricting and making sure people who are coming in do not mean us harm , then the more liberties we are going to lose in this country . 
so it is important that we make sure we have that water metaphorically flowing into this lake to give it life , but it is even more important that we restrict those who would harm us from coming in , as they would . 
