mr. chairman , i would like to thank chairman sensenbrenner for his tireless efforts and leadership in getting the real id act to the floor and for championing national security issues and the crisis we face today with our nation 's border security . 
i would also like to thank my colleagues in the southern california delegation for their efforts and for helping to protect not only their districts , but also the nation 's borders as well . 
san diego border fence : for too long our nation has been playing chicken with our national security by ignoring the need to take a comprehensive approach to border security issues , particularly as they pertain to the mexican border . 
the mexican border has long been a porous and unguarded route for anyone wishing to sneak into the united states to inflict harm on our nation and our citizens , including terrorists . 
in particular , the san diego sector covers an area of more than 7 , 000 square miles and 66 miles of international border with mexico . 
beyond that section of the border are the mexican cities of tijuana and tecate , which boasts a combined population of more than 2 million people . 
this area of the border has been a heavily traveled route for illegal immigrants and potential terrorists due to the major cities and transportation hubs , such as lax airport in los angeles . 
this area alone accounts for nearly 50 percent of national apprehensions of illegal immigrants nationwide . 
a significant number of illegal immigrants that have been apprehended in this area can be directly attributed to the san diego fence that was constructed a few years ago . 
the san diego fence is a project that was started several years ago , but a 3.5-mile section of the fence was not completed due to environmental concerns . 
the portions of the san diego fence that have been built have proven to be successful and are credited with significant declines in attempted border crossings in that area . 
the existing fence needs improvements and must be extended 3.5 miles to its originally planned length . 
this legislation puts those priorities front and center by granting the secretary of homeland security the authority to waive all federal laws in order to complete the fence . 
in addition , this bill will increase the funding to improve the existing fence with a 3-tiered fence system and complete the original designed length . 
while environmental issues plays an appropriate role in our nations ' policies , the environmental and national security impacts of having illegal immigrants trample this portion of the border is greater than the concerns regarding building and completing the fence . 
lastly , recent press accounts have reported that al qaeda operatives have joined forces with alien smuggling rings in order to enter the united states , particularly through the southern border with mexico . 
the time to act on the san diego border fence is now . 
drivers ' license : real id act also bolsters stronger security standards for the issuance of drivers ' licenses to aliens . 
this bill will establish requirements that help prove lawful presence in the united states prior to issuing a license to individuals . 
in addition , it is critical that all states must comply to eliminate weak links in the domestic identity security . 
we have all seen the failures of cards such as the matriculate consular cards and the widespread fraud that can take place . 
this bill requires tough physical security requirements to reduce counterfeiting and to ensure state compliance with such standards . 
lastly , drivers ' licenses that are issued in compliance with the new regulations will expire when an alien 's visa expires to alleviate any confusion or ability for terrorists asylum provisions : finally , the real id act will tighten the asylum system that has been abused and gamed by terrorists for years . 
this bill allows judges to determine a witnesses ' credibility in their asylum cases . 
without this change , judges have no discretion in determining the credibility of witnesses testifying that they are being persecuted . 
judge 's hands have been tied over the years and must just grant asylum in every case where persecution has been raised and have not been able to go beyond that point . 
this has allowed terrorists who have been persecuted in their home country for being terrorists to seek shelter in the united states . 
currently , this argument can not be used against them and is not grounds for deportation . 
this bill gives the power to refuse terrorists entry to the united states and allows terrorists to be deported back to their home country . 
terrorists have long been abusing our system in order to gain entry . 
this bill provides a list of long-accepted commonsense factors that an immigration judge can consider in assessing credibility , such as the demeanor , candor , responsiveness and consistency of an asylum applicant or other witness . 
it is essential for judges to be able to determine asylum cases based on the credibility or lack of credibility of witnesses . 
again , i would to thank chairman sensenbrenner for his efforts in getting this bill to the floor and i strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill because these reforms are necessary to our national security . 
