mr. chairman , i rise today to voice my strong support for the real id act , particularly its provisions calling for stronger standards for obtaining driver 's licenses . 
page 47 of the 9/11 commission report , `` without freedom of movement , terrorists can not plan , conduct surveillance , hold meetings , train for their mission or execute an attack. '' others have argued that the proposal involves an unprecedented preemption of state authority regarding the issuance and production of driver 's licenses . 
this is untrue . 
let me be clear : we are not preempting state authority in this area . 
what we are doing is establishing minimum standards for federal acceptance of such documents . 
this is consistent with actions taken by individual states . 
today , nevada and new mexico do not accept as proof of identity a state-issued driver 's license or identification card from states that do not meet their standards . 
the federalism issue is one of extreme importance , and that is exactly why the language has been crafted as it has . 
driver 's licenses have become the primary form of identification in the united states . 
they permit people to apply for other forms of identification , transfer funds to bank accounts , obtain access to federal buildings , purchase firearms and board airplanes . 
the majority of the states have recognized the privilege that a license brings and have set high standards for obtaining them . 
however , 10 states , including my state of north carolina , issue valid driver 's licenses and identification cards without requiring proof of legal status . 
that is scary . 
according to the 9/11 commission report , these travel documents are just as important as weapons are to terrorists . 
the real id act would require that federal agencies accept only driver 's licenses and state-issued identification cards from states that prove the legal status of applicants . 
the bill would also require states to review the legality of existing license holders upon renewal or replacement . 
the bill does not seek to set state policy for who may or who may not drive a car . 
it aims to set rigorous standards for what may be used as a form of id to a federal official . 
as i have stated before , i am a strong advocate of states ' rights . 
however , if certain states act irresponsibly and place the national security of the rest of the country at risk , then congress must get involved . 
we must do what it takes to make america safe . 
