mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner ) xz4003650 and all of those on the republican side who are so concerned about my district . 
i represent the california border between mexico and the united states . 
this so-called fence that you want to put in my district is really a giant public works project that does enormous harm . 
i wish you were equally concerned about the 50 million gallons of sewage that flows into my district that we should be treating . 
i wish you were concerned about the legal border crossings , that take four or five hours some days . 
i wish you would be concerned about my local health facilities who treat the undocumented and refund those dollars . 
but , no , you want to put a public works project in that waives all existing environmental laws necessary to ensure the construction of roads , barriers , cut and fills , taking down mountains . 
this would result in an enormous waste of millions of federal and state dollars that have already been contributed to restore and protect this area in san diego , its historical , its cultural , its environmental resources . 
ironically , the united nations ramsar convention recently bestowed the prestigious label of `` wetlands of international importance '' on this 2 , 500-acre national wildlife refuge and state park that you are going to destroy . 
now , we know we have to have border security . 
we live right there . 
you think we want to be overrun with terrorists ? 
we know what it takes . 
we know what a smart border is . 
and what you are suggesting is not a smart border . 
for a minimal security benefit and maximum dollars spent , you will do irreparable damage to areas along the western portion of the u.s.-mexico border . 
this multitiered fence , road building , cut and fill , shaving down of mountains will destroy , as i said , an environmentally sensitive area , violate several sections of the coastal act and destroy acres of sensitive habitat and wetlands and coastline . 
this sensitive habitat plays a vital role in the sustainability of the binational ecosystem . 
vote down this bill . 
