mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of h.r. 1268 making supplemental appropriations to ensure that our forces who are hard at work in iraq and afghanistan , and elsewhere , have the tools they need to do their job , and are well protected . 
mr. speaker , this week we witnessed the establishment of iraq 's first democratically elected government in over half a century and their swearing in . 
this event is yet another historic milestone in iraq 's progress toward a representative and transparent government . 
but even as we see important movement toward democracy , we are reminded that `` freedom is not free. '' as those of us who have seen war know , it is paid first by the sacrifices of those who serve . 
their courage is our inspiration . 
we wish them godspeed , swift victory and safe return . 
however , while it pales in comparison to the sacrifices of our brave men and women in the field , there is another part of the equation . 
and it is before us today . 
with this legislation , congress is acting decisively to ensure that our soldiers , sailors and airmen have the resources they need to keep iraq on the road back to the community of civilized nations . 
this bill contains over $ 76 billion to support military activities . 
this sum will : pay for the troop deployment ; repair and replace damaged vehicles being chewed up in an extreme harshly operating environment ; replenish stores of munitions and supplies ; and provide additional armor for vehicles , improved communications gear and more night-vision equipment . 
i would also add that this bill also provides over $ 60 million for additional electronic devices designed to protect our forces from the `` weapon of choice '' of the insurgents -- ieds . 
mr. speaker , this `` wartime supplemental '' appropriations bill meets our military , humanitarian and foreign policy requirements . 
we have every reason to be proud of young men and women at war . 
every single word of praise uttered on this floor today is justified . 
but while our young men and women in uniform appreciate our vocal support , they need this bill . 
it will provide them with the tools they need to get their job done as quickly as possible so they can return home to their families . 
i commend mr. lewis , the chairman of the appropriations committee -- the gentleman from california -- for his leadership . 
and i urge passage of the legislation . 
