mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
first , i must comment on the gentleman 's remarks that if things were so good , then why is it that we have parents of children with special needs decrying these budgets ? 
why is it that we have firefighters coming to us decrying this budget ? 
why are we seeing so many people saying that we have our priorities in the wrong place ? 
certainly we should look at this budget resolution because it should be defeated . 
even though social security privatization is the president 's number one priority , this republican budget resolution hides the cost of the harmful effects of social security privatization . 
it refuses to include any details on the president 's privatization plan and it further continues to spend every single cent of the social security surplus reserve on things other than social security . 
that means over the next 10 years under this budget that we have before us , $ 2.6 trillion of worker contributions that are supposed to be dedicated to social security will be spent on something other than social security . 
like what ? 
to pay for these tax cuts that are going principally to the wealthiest americans in this country . 
even with that being done , using all the social security surplus moneys , we still have deficits never seen before in this country . 
this year alone we will have the biggest deficit this country has ever seen , more than $ 400 billion . 
that is more than $ 1 , 000 on the head of each and every man and woman in this country . 
they are gleeful . 
they believe that that is what we should do . 
mr. speaker , many of us believe that we should have a plan as the salazar legislation would propose that we save every single cent of the social security surplus which this year alone the surplus in social security contributions that will not be needed to spend for benefits to social security recipients will equal $ 169 billion . 
we can start by saying that $ 169 billion of social security moneys will not be spent , because this budget spends every single cent of the $ 169 billion coming in this year for social security on something other than social security . 
that is why so many americans are so insecure about social security and insecure about what the president proposes to do about social security . 
not more than 2 hours ago , one of the president 's cabinet secretaries , secretary elaine chao of the department of labor , said before the committee , social security is not guaranteed . 
i asked the secretary , `` can you clarify ? 
do you mean in the future perhaps if we do n't do something to make it stronger , it wo n't be guaranteed ? 
`` she just continued to say , `` it is not guaranteed. '' that is why people today feel so insecure about what the president is proposing , especially with privatization , because he will not tell us what it will cost . 
we know it could end up costing some 46 percent in benefit cuts if we privatize . 
we also know that it would require massive government borrowing , some $ 5 trillion over the next 20 years , if you try to privatize the system . 
where does all that money come from ? 
mr. speaker , the reason people are so insecure about social security is not because the system is not there for them , it is because we have leaders talking about changing it without giving us the facts . 
mr. speaker , it is time for us in our budget documents to speak to the people , to give them the facts . 
this budget resolution does not do it . 
we should defeat it . 
