mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to the conference report of h.r. 3010 , the labor-health and human services-education appropriations bill for fiscal year 2006 . 
this bill and the republican majority are out of touch with the needs of the american public . 
this legislation is a question of priorities . 
it is unconscionable that the republican majority prepares to fund $ 70 billion in tax cuts with cuts to key education , job training and health care programs . 
with states across the country struggling to find the dollars to fully implement no child left behind , this bill would cut no child left behind funding by $ 784 million . 
with college tuition costs rising , this bill would freeze pell grant funding at last year 's level . 
with energy costs rising , this bill would also freeze low-income home energy assistance funding at last year 's level . 
with 7.4 million americans out of work , this bill would cut $ 245 million for unemployment insurance and employment services programs . 
additionally , this bill would provide the national institute of health , nih , which works to research and combat diseases like cancer and chronic illnesses such as alzheimer 's , parkinson 's and als , with the smallest funding level increase in 36 years . 
this bill would also slash $ 31 million in funding for preventive health block grants and provides virtually no funding for new community health centers . 
this bill fails to recognize the continued hiv/aids crisis by freezing funding on virtually all components of the ryan white aids care program , except aids drug assistance . 
in total , this bill ignores the health needs of americans . 
this bill does not reflect the priorities of the american people . 
as members of congress , we can not abandon our obligations to our children , to our parents and future generations by cutting vital programs to finance tax cuts bigger than we can afford . 
i urge my colleagues to reject the underlying bill and do better for the american people . 
