mr. chairman , as a member of both the congressional black caucus and the energy and commerce committee , i rise in support of both the democrat alternative and of the congressional black caucus alternative to h. con . 
res. 95 , the first concurrent resolution on the budget . 
the cbc alternative offers to the american people and to this congress a rational budget that is fiscally sound and morally responsible . 
the cbc alternative budget invests federal resources in the programs that benefit the constituencies of all of the members of this house : education , health care , economic opportunity , retirement security and homeland security . 
and the cbc alternative budget makes these investments while reducing the federal deficit -- which has spiraled out of control and out of sight over the last four years -- by an additional $ 4.0 billion . 
the congressional black caucus budget alternative focuses on closing the disparities that exist in america 's communities and invests in the future of this nation by fully funding the no child left behind act at fiscal year 2006 authorization levels , expanding the head start programs , doubling the funding for historically black colleges and universities and hispanic serving institutions and increasing the size of the pell grant allotment for college students . 
the cbc alternative restores much-needed federal dollars to the minority health initiative and for community health centers that provide critical health services to urban-based congressional districts like mine and rural-based congressional districts as well . 
the cbc alternative also increases funding for law enforcement initiatives such as juvenile justice programs and prisoner reentry programs that are so critical to facilitating successful reentry into society by ex-offenders . 
the congressional black caucus substitute invests in education and funding for the minority health initiative . 
the congressional black caucus substitute invests in our nation 's veterans by restoring the cuts the president 's budget proposed in veterans ' health care and providing enhanced survivor benefits , medical and prosthetic research , long term care and mental health care . 
to meet the needs of america and its citizens , the cbc changes some of the components of the president 's tax program , and directs those revenues to making our troops safe in the battlefield and our citizens safe here at home . 
mr. chairman , the cbc 's budget is america 's hope for tomorrow . 
mr. chairman , i urge my colleagues to join me in support of the cbc alternative budget . 
