mr. speaker , i rise today with a heavy heart to talk about the misguided conference report that the majority party has produced . 
while the number of people living in poverty in this country continues to rise , this conference report fails to adequately fund programs that work to alleviate poverty . 
despite the evidence , this conference report cuts head start funding and freezes funding for programs such as the community service block grant and liheap . 
as the number of americans without health insurance sets new records every day , this conference report is cutting funding to programs that provide healthcare assistance to the uninsured . 
it eliminates the healthy communities access program and imposes drastic cuts to maternal and child health funding and rural health outreach . 
these cuts are in addition to $ 11 billion in cuts to medicaid that are included in the majority party 's reconciliation bill that may be voted on later today . 
as the number of americans unable to find a job continues to rise this conference report issues devastating cuts to initiatives that help put dislocated workers back in the labor force . 
currently , 7.4 million americans are unemployed , yet this conference report cuts unemployment insurance and employment services by $ 141 million . 
at a time when this country should be investing in education and human capital , this conference agreement cuts $ 784 million from no child left behind . 
it cuts funding for even start and safe and drug free schools , and freezes funding for adult education . 
these cuts are in addition to a reconciliation bill that cuts $ 14.3 billion from student aid for college students . 
mr. speaker , i came to congress to find solutions to problems not make them worse . 
we have a responsibility to ensure that all americans have an opportunity to share in america 's prosperity . 
it is irresponsible that we approve this conference report that cuts and eliminates essential programs when there is such an obvious need for the services they provide . 
i can not in good conscience vote for this conference report and i urge my colleagues to vote `` no . '' 