mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. obey ) xz4003000 for all of his work on the legislation , and i thank the chairman of the subcommittee for all of his work . 
like so many others who have already spoken , it is clear they were not dealt a very fair hand , or the hand that they needed , to take care of needs of this country . 
i am most disappointed in the funding of no child left behind . 
at a time when school districts are entering into the most expensive part of no child left behind , when they are being required to restructure entire school districts , entire schools , when they are trying to meet the demand and the requirement of a law that we have a highly qualified teacher in every classroom , which requires substantial retraining of teachers , the attracting of new teachers , the paying of incentives for teachers to go to the most difficult schools , at that very time the federal government walks away from the commitment under no child left behind . 
the federal government starts to decrease its participation when the states and the school districts and our schools need it more than ever . 
it really shows such little confidence in the future of our young children . 
it shows such little confidence in the ability of our school districts to restructure themselves to meet the demands being placed upon them . 
we see cuts here in technology grants that are absolutely essential for the future education of our children . 
we see teacher quality grants cut . 
those are absolutely essential to improve the quality of our teachers in our classroom so they can engage in that kind of professionalism . 
what is most startling is that these cuts in education come at a time when , i am not saying put more money in education , mr. obey xz4003000 is not telling you that , but the american business community is telling you this is the most crucial thing you can do . 
the american electronics association , made up of some of the most successful companies in the history of this country , their number one priority was to fully fund no child left behind . 
the semiconductor association : fully fund no child left behind , put money into graduate school education , put money into highly qualified teachers . 
and this budget goes in exactly the other direction . 
we do not have the confidence that is necessary and demanded of this country in the future and the confidence in these young people and the necessary investments to be made in them . 
it is so discouraging to see the lack of confidence in our young people that this budget demonstrates . 
