mr. chairman , the republican 's 2006 budget resolution makes the wrong choices for our nation . 
it reflects skewed priorities and runs counter to our deepest held beliefs . 
the budget embraces disastrous economic policies while at the same time failing to put forward a vision of what the united states should be . 
what america needs instead is responsible policies that reflect our values , help bring our nation together , and invests in the future by expanding opportunity . 
many programs important to georgia are cut , including $ 800 million from the centers for disease control , funding for firefighters by 30 percent and $ 26.7 million in homeland security funding for georgia . 
these programs provide communities are harmed by cutting community development block grants ( cdbg ) by $ 211.9 million over the next four years . 
representatives from the cities of riverdale and powder springs told me this week that their plans for building community centers depend on funding of cdbg . 
the budget will also eliminate the hope vi program , which is revitalizing public housing in georgia . 
the section 8 housing vouchers cut would remove 8 , 700 families from the program in georgia . 
this budget proposes to cut vital domestic investments and services for the middle class and poor , while continuing to accumulate huge budget deficits . 
education is cut by $ 366.8 million affecting 91 , 050 georgia children by under funding the no child left behind act . 
trio programs by almost $ 13 million for georgia , affecting 13 , 000 students and vocational and adult education in georgia would be reduced by $ 173.7 million from 2006-2010 . 
healthcare would be affected by an estimated $ 7.9 million cut to southern regional hospital . 
these medicaid cuts hurt clayton county where 24.2 percent of the population in 2003 utilized medicaid . 
about 10 percent of clayton county is below the federal poverty level . 
despite these cuts , every georgia family 's share of the national debt has been increased by $ 38 , 281 . 
the federal budget should be an honest blueprint for the spending priorities of the government . 
however , this budget is not honest . 
it is passing our obligations , responsibilities and challenges to our children and grandchildren , while cutting programs that benefit the poorest among us . 
we need not accept a federal budget that singles out hard-working middle-class families , those who have served our nation , and our society 's most vulnerable citizens . 
americans deserve an honest budget that reflects their priorities and that honors their hard work . 
i urge my colleagues to reject these unnecessary cuts and work to improve the capacity of programs to address critical community needs . 
