mr. chairman , today i rise in support of the spratt substitute and in opposition to h. con . 
res. 95 , the house republican budget . 
a budget is a blueprint of values and priorities -- a road map for where we want to move the country . 
it is no surprise that the republican budget for fiscal year 2006 is more of the same : continued tax cuts for the wealthy paid for by slashing programs that rhode islanders depend on . 
however , the spratt substitute contains thoughtful policies to balance the budget by 2012 without individual tax rate increases or harmful cuts to security , health care , education , veterans ' benefits , and other programs that improve the quality of life for rhode island 's working families . 
while the republicans claim that budget cuts are needed to return to fiscal discipline , they forget their own policies caused today 's financial problems . 
without the tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent of americans enacted since 2001 , our nation 's fiscal health would be much rosier , and the neediest and most vulnerable americans would not be forced to sacrifice . 
their fiscal year 2006 budget proposal continues to move in the wrong direction , and next year 's deficit will likely be the largest in history , with at least $ 400 billion added to the national credit card . 
how does this blueprint make us safer ? 
while the department of homeland security receives an overall increase in funding , the budget largely follows the president 's request , which cuts needed resources for the first responders who risk their lives every day to protect us . 
the spratt substitute contains $ 1.1 billion more than the republican budget for vital law enforcement programs such as cops , fire grants , and byrne grants . 
these programs provide rhode island 's police and fire departments with the equipment and training to keep us safe . 
how does this blueprint make us healthier ? 
the republican budget requires $ 20 billion in cuts to medicaid . 
this reduction will jeopardize a critical health care safety net for seniors , children and people with disabilities and shift more of the burden to states . 
medicaid cuts would result in $ 80 million less for rhode island . 
the loss of federal funding places an enormous burden on states like rhode island , by pressuring them to cut eligibility for medicaid . 
my state has successfully leveraged federal medicaid dollars and currently offers coverage to many vulnerable , low-income pregnant women , parents of young children , and other groups not included in the federal mandate . 
without medicaid , these people would likely join the increasing ranks of the uninsured . 
lacking proper preventative how does this blueprint prepare children for the future ? 
again , the republican budget matches the president 's proposal to eliminate 48 education programs that provide assistance with vocational education , education technology , civic education , and school counselors . 
in contrast , the spratt substitute provides $ 4.5 billion in additional funding for no child left behind and other valuable programs such as student loans and school lunches , giving students the resources to succeed . 
how does this blueprint honor those who serve our country in uniform ? 
perhaps most egregiously during this time of war , the republicans want to cut veterans ' health care by $ 14 billion over five years , impose new fees , and increase copayments for veterans ' health care , adding an undue burden to those who have served their country so bravely . 
the spratt substitute provides $ 17 billion over five years to provide veterans the services they have earned through their patriotism and sacrifice . 
the republican blueprint does not make us safer or healthier , prepare children for the future , or honor veterans . 
by continuing failed tax policies while cutting effective programs that rhode islanders depend on , their proposal is a misguided and unjust starting point . 
as democrats show , it is possible to create a realistic blueprint that is fiscally responsible and builds on the needs of the american people . 
i urge my colleagues to support the spratt substitute and reject h. con . 
res. 95 . 
