mr. chairman , i rise in strong opposition of h. con . 
res. 95 , the budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 . 
this budget contains painful spending cuts to critical programs , continued large deficits , and a spiraling debt . 
it is fiscally reckless , morally irresponsible and is a clear failure of leadership . 
this budget is a sham . 
it fails to include funding for many of the president 's key programs -- such as social security privatization , the war in iraq , and the cost of the alternative minimum tax . 
it does not cut the deficit in half , as the administration claims . 
when all omitted costs are included , it will raise the deficit by $ 2 trillion over five years . 
this growing debt will be passed on to our children and grandchildren , leaving them to shoulder the burden of our fiscal irresponsibility . 
this budget cuts critical programs that working families depend on , like medicaid , education , community development and veterans ' health care . 
we have soldiers fighting for us in iraq , and this budget does n't even provide enough funding to pay for their health care when they return . 
the budget will also endanger the health of millions of americans , by proposing a $ 1.1 billion cut to food stamps , the nation 's number one investment in nutrition and defense against hunger . 
if this budget passes , we will be forcing working families to make hard choices between buying groceries and paying their bills . 
the budget also spends every single penny of the $ 1.1 trillion social security trust fund . 
we need to return to pay as you go budget rules , so that we can provide a solid source of funding for social security . 
what is most disturbing , is that the resolution before us today is even more dangerous than the version the president sent to congress . 
the budget fails to offer the specifics of the president 's budget . 
it proposes large cuts in funding , but without targeting specific programs , it leaves a myriad of programs vulnerable to cuts . 
i urge my colleagues to vote `` no. '' we need a plan that is fiscally responsible and will fund the programs working families depend on . 
