mr. chairman , more needs to be done to address the ongoing global challenges of health , poverty , disease , and disasters so that we can end the inequities in foreign policy . 
therefore , the cbc budget increases funding for these core development accounts with the overall goals of reducing poverty disparities and improving quality of life . 
there is $ 3.7 billion in the cbc budget for global aids , which is $ 500 million more than the president 's budget . 
that is an increase of $ 900 million from last year and will support prevention , care and treatment for thousands more people . 
foreign aid to africa and the caribbean is increased by $ 250 million in the congressional black caucus budget to allow developing countries to participate in the global economy . 
these funds support strategic priorities in the caribbean region , improve good governance and reduce corruption , increase economic growth and free trade and reduce narcotics trafficking . 
public health and preventable illness initiatives is increased by $ 250 million in the cbc budget . 
more than one-third of the children in africa are malnourished . 
in the last 10 years , approximately 2 million children have been killed in armed conflicts . 
overall disparity -- nearly 1.3 billion people around the world live in poverty and do not have safe drinking water ; more than one-third of the world 's children are malnourished ; within the last ten years , approximately two million children have been killed in armed conflicts , many after being forced to be child soldiers ; many poor countries spend 30 % -40 % of their annual budgets on repaying their foreign-held debt ( often more than they spend on health and education combined ) ; and horrific conditions can lead individuals to become more disaffected and susceptible to recruitment by terrorist organizations . 
hiv/aids solution -- aids is a global humanitarian disaster that demands robust leadership from the united states . 
according to the need based numbers advanced by unaids , the stop tb partnership , and roll back malaria , we believe the us should provide $ 6.7 billion next year . 
and at least $ 1.5 billion in funding this year for the global fund to operate efficiently and effectively . 
