mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman from massachusetts for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , the most traumatic moment of my life was when my mother died in my arms . 
she had chosen not to be dependent on a respirator in a hospital but to die at home with her family . 
these circumstances , or some variant of them , occur eventually within every family , and whether the federal government has the right to intervene in those private tragedies is the issue before us tonight . 
i talked to terri schiavo 's brother today , and then finding what he said convincing , i read through all of mr. schiavo 's testimony and interviews . 
and now i do not know who is right and who is wrong . 
but that is the point . 
neither do my colleagues . 
but 10 courts have heard from all sides , from every relevant witness , and all of them , 19 judges , many of them conservative republicans , all have reached the same conclusion , that in fact terri schiavo 's husband 's wishes are consistent with his wife 's , that the feeding tube should be removed . 
i have never met , certainly not examined , ms. schiavo ; but nor have any of the so-called medical experts in this body that have testified on the basis of edited videotapes ever examined her either . 
but every qualified doctor who has examined her has reached the same conclusion : she is in a perpetual vegetative state ; she has no cerebral cortex . 
the reason this issue is before us , i think , is that it is all about religion and politics . 
but does not every religion teach , first of all , that no human being has the right to play god ? 
and is not one of the very first principles of politics is that we should not use individual human tragedies , people suffering in anguish , political pawns to appease the interest groups that keep us in power . 
mr. speaker , the night that this was brought up last week , we also voted on a budget resolution , and we decided to cut tens of billions of dollars out of the program that enables the poorest and the sickest and the most dependent among us throughout this country to be able to live in a dignified , safe and sanitary nursing home . 
we decided to cut that money . 
i did not agree with cutting that money from medicaid , but i do agree we have that right . 
we have the right to cut taxes for the wealthy , while we cut health care for the poor . 
but we have no legislative , constitutional authority to intervene in these very personal family matters , and most importantly , we have no moral right to be doing this tonight . 
