mr. speaker , i want to thank the gentleman from massachusetts ( mr. frank ) xz4001400 for yielding me time . 
mr. speaker , why are we here tonight ? 
we have not been ordained or called by some all-powerful force to play god or play doctor . 
every day american families make life-and-death decisions governed by their own faith and led by their own hearts . 
this congress does not interfere with most personal decisions of these american citizens . 
why then , mr. speaker , why have we come here tonight ? 
where is the respect for individual responsibility that is waved like a banner in this chamber ? 
where is the respect tonight for states ' rights that we said we hold so dear ? 
if we really believe in those values , we will stay out of terri schiavo 's life today and let the decision of her husband and the ruling of the federal court stand . 
leadership must lead . 
tonight this leadership is a taillight . 
it is not the headlight for democracy and for a citizen 's right to privacy that it should be . 
this is demagoguery . 
this is a step in where we have no business . 
this is walking where the angels fear to tread . 
we are playing with a young woman 's life for the sake of politics . 
this is not about values . 
this is not about religion . 
it is pandering for political gain with the next election in mind . 
mr. speaker , how much further can we slide down this slippery slope of hypocrisy ? 
how much lower can we sink ? 
how much more unprincipled can we be ? 
in a democracy , sometimes we disagree with individual decisions . 
sometimes it is hard to bear judgment that we do not understand . 
but if we truly believe in individual freedom and the right to privacy , then we must get out of the way and let people be free . 
this is a matter that should rest with the family , their consciences , and their god . 
the florida courts have spoken , and we should not intervene . 
this is a very , very sad night for the house of representatives . 
mr. speaker , is it possible for us to let this young woman take her leave in peace ? 
