mr. speaker , as a pro-lifer , i have supported the efforts of the gentleman from florida ( mr. weldon ) xz4004271 to save terri schiavo 's life from the beginning , but as i have learned more about this case it is not just a case about traditional life debates . 
normally those issues are hard , but what is happening in this case is a moral outrage . 
terri schiavo is not dependent upon life supports . 
she is dependent upon being fed , only she can not feed herself . 
years ago , my wife , diane , when she worked at the fort wayne state hospital and training center set up a feeding training program for disabled people who could not feed themselves . 
should they now die , too ? 
terri swallows , shows eye movement , and seems to respond . 
she is a living human being although with limited competency . 
those who would let her die can overplay her handicaps , but they can not change the fact that she is a living human being who is responsive . 
also , her guardian is supposed to protect the person they are guarding , not take the money intended for life support , divert it and offer no rehabilitation efforts . 
many others who can swallow their saliva and who can barely do anything beyond that have received help for years . 
she did not get it because most of it was spent on attorneys by her guardian who wanted to kill her . 
this is a moral outrage . 
her true guardian is her parents at this point . 
her husband is in a compromised position . 
with his fiancee and two children by that fiancee , it would be very inconvenient if she recovered . 
it is an outrage what is happening . 
furthermore , there are those who would say that states rights here should prevail over the right of handicapped people to be killed . 
whether it be the americans with disabilities act or the medicaid that has funded her because her husband 's money that was supposed to be for her rehabilitation was going to lawsuits to kill her or whether it is a simple basic constitutional right to life , they all prevail over states rights . 
let us not let easter week 2005 become the week america let a helpless , mentally disabled woman starve to death while the whole nation watched . 
