mr. speaker , our colleagues have spent this evening reiterating factually inaccurate information , and i want to make sure we clear it up . 
the independent guardian ad litem appointed to represent terri schiavo has said in his report that , despite the facts cited by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who have said that terri felt pain and laughs and cries , that that is factually inaccurate ; that her cerebral cortex has been liquefied , and that is the area of the brain that responds to emotion and reason . 
so that is impossible what they have detailed here tonight . 
additionally , they talk about six neurologists and eight physicians that have said that she is not in a persistent vegetative state . 
also factually inaccurate . 
those physicians to which they refer have only viewed terri via videotape . 
the five court-appointed physicians that have examined terri , two appointed on michael schiavo 's side , two on the schindlers ' side , and one court-appointed physician , who have all examined her , the board certified neurologists who had scientifically-based academically-researched testimony , their testimony was deemed to be clear and convincing by the court that she was and is in a persistent vegetative state . 
the other physicians ' testimony was discounted as anecdotal only . 
in addition to that , i want to just close with the commentary from the guardian ad litem . 
he spent 20 of 30 days with her . 
he put his face up close to hers and tried to make eye contact , pleading desperately , trying to will her into giving him any kind of sign . 
he said , i would beg her , please , terri , help me . 
you want to believe there is some connection . 
you hope she is going to sit up in bed and say , `` hey , i 'm really here , but do n't tell anybody. '' or , `` i 'm really here , tell everybody. '' but schiavo never made eye contact . 
when wolfson visited her when her parents were there , she never made eye contact with them either , he said . 
and for all of wolfson 's pleadings and coaxings , he never got what he most wanted : a sign . 
he said , i felt like there was something distinctive about whoever terri is , but i was not clear it was there , inside the vessel . 
during those 30 days , wolfson was plagued by nightmares . 
he concluded that the medical and legal evidence behind schiavo 's diagnosis of being in a persistent vegetative state was credible , but he still felt that for all their expertise , those medical experts would never truly know where schiavo was . 
he was dismayed to learn friday that barbara weller , an attorney for the schindlers , claimed schiavo tried to speak . 
he said , terri does not speak . 
to claim otherwise reduces her to a fiction . '' 