mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
first i would like to thank the gentleman from new york ( mr. boehlert ) xz4000350 , chairman of the committee on science , and the gentlewoman from illinois ( mrs. biggert ) xz4000270 , chair of the subcommittee on energy , for their hard work and cooperation in developing the foundation of title ix , the r & amp ; d title of this bill . 
a stable domestic energy supply is essential to the economic well-being and security of our nation . 
while the bill on the floor today has provisions that are not acceptable to many democrats and republicans , there are good points worth mentioning in title ix . 
of particular note are the provisions ensuring greater doe cooperation with the smaller colleges and universities who will train our next generation of scientists , mathematicians , technicians and teachers . 
the department , as well as the traditional large research universities , could benefit from the enormous pool of talented researchers in the nation 's smaller colleges and universities , and i encourage greater collaboration . 
i would also like to highlight the work of several of our members on key components of doe research and development in title ix : the interest of the gentleman from california ( mr. honda ) xz4001850 in the progress of the next generation lighting initiative , the stanford linear accelerator and the joint genomics institute and his work with the gentleman from connecticut ( mr. larson ) xz4002330 on transit bus demonstrations of fuel cells ; the continued dedication of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. woolsey ) xz4004360 and the gentleman from colorado ( mr. udall ) xz4004131 to clean , renewable and efficient energy technologies ; the work of the gentleman from illinois ( mr. costello ) xz4000820 to ensure that utilization of our vast coal resources only gets cleaner and more efficient ; the vision of the gentlewoman from california ( ms. zoe lofgren ) xz4002450 in support of domestic fusion energy research and international fusion projects ; the work of the gentleman from tennessee ( mr. davis ) xz4000971 to ensure good science continues at oak ridge national laboratory , particularly in the area of high-end computing ; the efforts of the gentleman from north carolina ( mr. miller ) xz4002781 to establish a nationwide network of advanced energy technology transfer centers to get technologies off the laboratory shelf and into the marketplace ; finally , the tireless commitment of the gentlewoman from texas ( ms. jackson-lee ) xz4001990 to research and development at historically black colleges and universities and other minority-serving institutions . 
the committee on science contributed virtually all of title ix , the research and development title of this bill . 
while research and development programs typically have not been controversial , i believe the title ix provisions represent a major part of this legislation . 
the r & amp ; d programs authorized in this bill will provide the means to produce energy that this country will need for the foreseeable future . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
