mr. speaker , i heard the previous speaker 's comment . 
this is not a bipartisan bill . 
that does not mean that some democrats will not vote for it , but none of the ranking members were involved in this policy , and they are not voting for it . 
mr. speaker , the united states of america needs an energy strategy that not only reduces our nation 's dependence on foreign sources of oil , but also strengthens our national security . 
as a bipartisan group of 26 national security officials , including robert mcfarlane , president reagan 's national security adviser , and jim woolsey , president clinton 's cia director , recently stated in a letter to president bush : `` it should be a top national security priority of the united states to significantly reduce its consumption of foreign oil . 
the united states ' dependence on imported petroleum poses a risk to our homeland security and to our economic well-being. '' yet , mr. speaker , this republican energy bill does virtually nothing to reduce our dependence on petroleum products . 
in fact , at a time of record profits for the oil and gas industries , these traditional energy producers stand to reap 93 percent of the tax incentives in this bill , or $ 7.5 billion . 
do we know who said they did not need it ? 
the president of the united states , george w. bush said that just a day ago . 
renewable energy and conservation receive only 7 percent of the resources allotted in this bill . 
this bill is simply a rehash of the same policies and incentives that have made us more , not less , energy dependent . 
it would provide more than $ 22 billion to the oil and gas and other energy industries in tax breaks , direct spending , and authorizations . 
does anybody who is paying $ 2.50 or $ 3 at the pump think that the energy companies are hurting for dollars ? 
i think not . 
it would shift the costs of mtbe cleanup from manufacturers to the american taxpayers . 
i think most americans do not think that is a good policy . 
furthermore , the problem with it is , that is why we do not have an energy bill , because the majority leader demanded of the senate that that be in there , and the senate would not take it . 
it would weaken the clean air act and , unbelievably , this republican bill would actually increase gas prices by 3 cents per gallon , according to the bush administration 's own energy department . 
apparently , this republican majority believes you need to pay more for gasoline . 
there is a reason that this energy bill is going nowhere fast . 
it is bad policy , and it fails to address the energy needs of this great nation . 
i urge my colleagues to oppose it . 
