mr. speaker , h.r. 6 , which the house passed earlier today , is called the energy policy act of 2005 . 
but the only real policies to be found in this immoral legislation are tax breaks for polluters , swollen gasoline prices , and continued reliance on fossil fuels of the past . 
this legislation fails to even mention climate change or global warming which scientists of all stripes acknowledge is caused at least in part by high levels of carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles . 
it fails to correct the matter of mtbe , a gasoline additive that has leaked into the earth and tarnished our drinking water , except , however , to waive liabilities for mtbe providers . 
most significant of all , mr. speaker , this legislation fails to truly address america 's reliance on middle east oil . 
of the 21 million barrels consumed by the united states each day , 14 million barrels are imported , making middle east oil the united states ' main source of energy . 
much of this oil is imported from countries that do not share america 's commitment to democracy and our commitment to human rights , countries like saudi arabia , libya , and venezuela . 
it is obvious in this energy bill that those who claim that drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge in alaska will cure our nation 's energy policy do not know much about how oil is produced . 
drilling in anwr will do little to reduce our current dependence on foreign oil because it will take a full decade to process what little oil may be there in the first place . 
that does not sound like a comprehensive energy strategy to me . 
by continuing to purchase middle east oil by the boatload , we are failing to take advantage of life-changing renewable energy technologies while continuing to promote our national insecurity by providing billions of dollars each year to repressive regimes . 
the oil dollars that go to oppressive middle east regimes do not , of course , help the poor people in these countries . 
instead , they line the already thick pockets of the fat-cat ruling elite . 
in this way , u.s. policies actually discourage democracy in the middle east because we continue to help maintain the economic gap between the rich and the poor . 
in truth , this failure to reduce our dependence on middle east oil along with president bush 's supremely misguided invasion of iraq have combined to make americans less secure , not more secure . 
the bush administration has falsely labeled the war in iraq , much like the latest energy bill , as the essence of protecting our national security , when in fact both contribute to our lack of security . 
already more than 1 , 500 american soldiers and tens of thousands of iraqi civilians have been killed in this war , not to mention the more than 12 , 000 troops who have been gravely wounded . 
hardly the stuff of a national security . 
let us never forget that the invasion of iraq was a war of choice against a country that never posed a threat to the united states and never possessed relationships with international terrorist groups like al qaeda . 
president bush claims that things are going well in iraq , demonstrated by the fact that 150 , 000 iraqi soldiers `` have been adequately trained. '' but if 150 , 000 iraqi soldiers have been trained , then why do 150 , 000 american soldiers remain in the country ? 
why do our troops continue to die for a war that was a mistake from the very beginning ? 
if president bush continues to support a misguided war that is draining our national resources , and if the republicans will not work to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , how can they possibly claim to be securing america against the threat of terrorism ? 
clearly , much more needs to be done to make america secure . 
mr. speaker , i will soon reintroduce the smart security resolution , legislation to secure america for the future by preventing the threat of terrorism ; reducing nuclear stock piles ; eliminating the possible use of nuclear weapons through diplomatic means ; and establishing a new apollo project to secure america 's energy independence . 
i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in this effort to truly secure america for the future . 
