mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , since september 11 of 2001 , we have been a nation at war . 
we are engaged in a worldwide war on terror , a battle against the forces of terror , terrorists who hate our freedoms , who hate democracy . 
but the fact of the matter is that the forces of freedom are winning . 
we have liberated afghanistan and brought democracy to that nation for the first time in its history . 
afghanistan has gone from a haven for terrorists to an ally in the war on terror . 
we have liberated iraq . 
in january , we saw the dramatic results when the people of iraq defied the terrorists and went to the polls to elect a new government . 
we saw another major step with the formation of a new democratic government in iraq just the other day , and we have seen democratic movements break out in lebanon . 
we have seen the libyan government renounce terror and weapons of mass destruction , and we have seen the leaders of al qaeda rounded up , including just yesterday , when the number three terrorist in that organization was captured in pakistan . 
yes , war is difficult , but as we have found throughout our nation 's history , freedom is not free . 
that is why we in congress must take this step today and approve the emergency wartime supplemental . 
we have a responsibility to ensure that our men and women in uniform have the tools that they need to take the fight to the enemy , and we have an obligation to the families of those brave men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the name of freedom and security to ensure that they are cared for . 
we have an obligation to the newly democratic allies that we have to ensure that they will survive and not revert to repression and to terror . 
we have a responsibility to keep the heat on the terrorists . 
they can run and they can hide , but not forever . 
for those who say that we are spending too much on this war , i would ask what price do you put on freedom and on security ? 
i urge my colleagues to support the rule and this measure . 
we owe our troops , our allies , and the american people no less . 
