mr. speaker , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
mr. speaker , i feel compelled to respond to some of the points my good friend , the gentlewoman from california ( ms. lee ) xz4002370 made . 
not helping our soldiers ? 
a blank check ? 
this bill is anything but a blank check . 
let me read a couple of things in here . 
just running down operations and maintenance , navy , $ 3.4 billion ; operations and maintenance , marine corps . 
there is line after line of great specificity my good friend , the chairman of the committee on appropriations was very careful in crafting a bill that will meet the needs of our personnel . 
the immoral thing to do would be to commit 170 , 000 people to combat and not resupply them and not reequip them and not give them the things they need on a daily basis to not only be successful , but to provide for their own safety and security . 
it is very legitimate to debate the war . 
although i remind my good friend on the other side of the aisle , this body and the other body vote on a bipartisan basis to make the commitment in iraq . 
i could read off name after name , including the distinguished nominee from the other body , of my friends on the other side of the aisle , a candidate for president last time , who voted in favor of this particular contest . 
having made that decision , once we place people on the line under fire and in danger , we owe it to them to provide them what they need . 
we can continue to debate policy . 
that is a very legitimate point , but i think it would it be the height of folly and irresponsibility to not fund people when they are in the field in action . 
frankly , it would send the wrong signal to our adversaries , and more importantly , the wrong signal to our own men and women and their families . 
and not to support the rule , and certainly not to support the supplemental appropriations , i believe , would be a grave and terrible mistake for this country . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
