mr. speaker , i appreciate the gentleman for yielding me time . 
mr. speaker , this is a good debate . 
it is a good , healthy debate that we are having here on the floor of congress . 
the earlier speaker , the gentleman from ohio , cited some papal encyclicals , but , as a practicing catholic , i will be the first to defend his right to do that here on the floor , but i also think there are some bigger issues we need to talk about . 
first of all , how do we keep jobs in america ? 
we all care about that . 
this is what we are talking about . 
i would argue we have got to do basically two things : stop pushing jobs overseas and stop countries from unfairly taking jobs overseas . 
how do we stop pushing jobs overseas ? 
well , for starters , we can address health care costs . 
we can address the fact that we tax our businesses and our jobs more than any other country in the world , save japan . 
we can address tort costs , regulatory costs , have a comprehensive energy policy to make energy more affordable . 
how do we stop countries from unfairly taking jobs overseas ? 
we have to remember , mr. speaker , that 97 percent of the world 's consumers are not in this country . 
they are outside of this country . 
one in five manufacturing jobs are tied to exports . 
exports , on average , pay more than other jobs . 
we can not put our head in the sand . 
pulling out of the wto is the economic equivalent of throwing the baby out with the bath water . 
what has happened since we have gone into the wto ? 
let us look at the challenges that confront us . 
we talk about china , a very appropriate topic to discuss here . 
since china joined the wto , do my colleagues know how many laws we had to change and pass in america to go there ? 
zero . 
do my colleagues know how many laws china had to change , laws and regulations , to enter the wto ? 
1 , 100 . 
to get into the wto , to join countries of fair trade , china had to change 1 , 100 laws . 
are they following all these rules and agreements ? 
of course not . 
but because they are in the wto , because we have the wto , we finally have a forum , a mechanism , a system to bring these countries into compliance to play by the rules . 
if we did not have this system , all these countries could play by whatever rules they set . 
we are the economic superpower of the world . 
we play by the rules . 
we are the most transparent , most honest , most basic system in the world . 
we need other countries to play by the same rules , too , so we can all join together in growing economic growth here in america and across the world . 
pulling out of the wto would be the economic equivalent of biting off our nose to spite our face . 
since we have had china in the wto , i have been critical of the administration 's stance in its first 3 years . 
i have joined with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle criticizing the administration on their china policy . 
however , over the past year and a half , the administration , through the wto rules , has brought 12 different actions against china . 
we are making success . 
we are bringing accountability . 
pull out now , and the situation gets much worse . 
stay in it . 
fight for fair trade . 
we can clean up these rules , and that is the only way to bring other nations into the fair trade arena . 
