mr. speaker , i thank my friend from california for yielding me this time . 
mr. speaker , i think it is important for us to understand why this resolution is before us that brings forward h. j. res. 27 . 
we are now celebrating the tenth anniversary of the creation of the world trade organization , the wto . 
when congress passed the legislation for us to join the wto , bill clinton was president of the united states , and newt gingrich , congressman gingrich , thought it was important to have a mechanism in place where the congress can exercise its independent authority over trade and that we should have an opportunity to carry out that responsibility by evaluating whether we want to stay in the world trade organization or not . 
mr. speaker , i must tell my colleagues that when that issue was before us i had mixed thoughts as to whether we should have a nuclear option of withdrawing from the wto or whether there are more effective ways for congress to exercise its constitutional responsibility in an independent way over trade . 
i must tell my colleagues that i think that this process is going to be helpful . 
so let me make it clear . 
i support the resolution to bring forward h. j. res. 27 that has come out of the committee on rules . 
i very much oppose the passage of h. j. res. 27 , which would withdraw us from the wto . 
as the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier ) xz4001150 pointed out and as the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui ) xz4006631 pointed out , it is in the united states ' interests to be in a rules-based trading system , and we need to make sure that we continue united states participation within the wto . 
however , we also need to understand that we need to improve and make more effective the wto , and we also need to strengthen the manner in which we review the operations of the wto . 
we have had legislation that we could have acted on that would do that . 
i heard the gentleman from california ( mr. dreier ) xz4001150 give his analysis of the rulings within the wto . 
quite frankly , my score sheet is different . 
in two-thirds of the cases that have gone to dispute resolution panels or appellate panels , we have seen that they have overreached . 
that is , they have gone beyond the negotiated terms and ruled against u.s. interests . 
i think we should have a review process of the wto dispute settlement process . 
senator dole had suggested that when he was in the united states senate . 
i think we should look at that , and that would be a more effective way to have a continuing review in carrying out our responsibility as to whether the wto is acting effectively to open up markets to all producers and manufacturers and farmers . 
we also need to look at the enforcement of our trade rules . 
we need to spend more effort on enforcement . 
china 's manipulation of currency should be a direct interest to this body . 
the protection of intellectual property rights of american companies should be more aggressively pursued . 
we need to be more aggressive against european subsidies . 
we need to deal with the enforcement of our antidumping laws . 
all this can be done and should be done , and we should not wait every 5 years in order to review that . 
we also need to expand the opportunities within the doha round that will be presented to us . 
we have to help u.s. service industries so they can gain access to foreign markets . 
we need to work on tariff and nontariff barriers for u.s. manufacturers . 
so , mr. speaker , i urge my colleagues to vote for this resolution , to vote against house joint resolution 27 so that we can move forward to improving the wto . 
i urge us to look at ways in which we can help u.s. manufacturers , u.s. producers , and u.s. farmers to gain greater access to the international markets . 
we need to do that on an ongoing basis , and the congress needs to exercise its authority to make sure that we are as aggressive as possible at opening up markets for u.s. interests . 
