madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
we are all sinners even though we have the 10 commandments , but can members imagine how much more sin we might be committing had those commandments been mere suggestions ? 
that is why the henry hyde u.n . 
reform act does have commandments that the u.n . 
should and must adhere to . 
i rise in strong support of this bill . 
on monday as we were preparing for the debate on reforming the united nations , a constituent of mine was at one of the sessions of the economic and social council , one of the many united nations bodies , and he was immediately struck by the almost orwellian and secretive nature of the proceedings , as well as by the vitriolic , anti-american attacks in which the chairman and other members of the committee were engaged . 
my constituent made several observations to me that reaffirmed that lives , not just policies , are at stake in our efforts to reform the u.n . 
institutions . 
this same constituent sent me a postcard like this one that reaffirmed to me the need for this . 
it had a note encouraging the congress to overhaul the united nations , and the picture on the postcard is a sculpture of a broken world , implying that the united nations is the means by which to fix it . 
however , how can the united nations be considered a legitimate source of stability or an instrument for the protection of the most vulnerable populations or a tool for the promotion of human rights and good governance when it is plagued with graft and corruption , when sexual predators and traffickers in human beings are part of the policing and peacekeeping mission , and when the human rights commission is a country club of rogue states made up of dictators and tyrants and thugs ? 
reforming the united nations is necessary for its survival , and it is long overdue . 
however , reform must not be limited to rearranging the deck chairs , but instead to correcting the organization 's serious institutional and systemic flaws . 
the u.n . 
has paid lip service to nominal efforts to reform itself , and the few times that those promises have been kept , it is when the united states has leveraged its financial support for the organization and its specialized agencies . 
for this reason , the henry hyde u.n . 
reform act of 2005 mandates spending cuts in specific programs , redirects funds to priority areas , and , yes , withholds 50 percent of u.s.-assessed dues if certifications are not made in critical areas . 
those commandments must be adhered to . 
if we are serious about making the united nations relevant again , and i think in a bipartisan way we are , if we are serious about restoring it to reflect its core mission , and i think in a bipartisan way we are , if we are serious about saving the united nations from itself , then we must render our overwhelming support for the henry hyde u.n . 
reform act of 2005 . 
i would just like to close by saying that it is very fitting that this bill before us should have the name of our distinguished chairman of the committee on international relations , the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde ) xz4001920 , who has been the conscience of the house , the voice of the people for so many years , has had such a distinguished public service career in the house and led us through some very difficult times as chairman of the committee on the judiciary as well as chairman of our committee on international relations . 
i am so pleased that this bill before us , which will reform this wonderful peacekeeping institution , will have his name as part of its reform legislation . 
