mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
i am a proud original cosponsor of the henry j. hyde u.n . 
reform act , and i rise today in support of the rule and with a profound sense of gratitude for the leadership that my mentor and friend , henry j. hyde of illinois , has provided on this bill and throughout an illustrious career in this congress . 
i also want to commend for what i know will be a vigorous debate that has already begun the gentleman from california one of the extraordinary things about this debate as it unfolds before the american people , mr. speaker , is the degree of agreement between the two men that i just mentioned . 
it is a rare piece of legislation indeed where there is so much agreement about the goals . 
but i believe what will become apparent to any observer of this debate is that we are not so much arguing over the ends as the means , and that is a legitimate argument that will be , i believe , a great service to the country . 
the united nations is desperately in need of fundamental reform , and the henry j. hyde u.n . 
reform act does just that . 
in 1994 , staffers at unicef 's kenya office defrauded and squandered up to $ 10 million by some estimates . 
in the congo last year , u.n . 
peacekeepers and civilian personnel stand accused of widespread sexual exploitation . 
and we all know of the $ 10 billion oil-for-food scandal . 
both sides agree it is time for reform in the wake of years of mismanagement and outright scandal . 
but i submit humbly that it is time for u.n . 
reform with teeth , and that is precisely what the hyde u.n . 
reform act provides . 
it focuses on budgets , streamlining , prioritization of programs , oversight , accountability , peacekeeping , and human rights . 
but the hyde bill also uses the leverage of withholding up to 50 percent of u.s. assessed dues if certifications are not made in key areas . 
under the hyde bill , the u.n . 
must achieve 32 of 39 reforms , 14 of which are mandatory , or face the potential loss of 50 percent of u.s. assessed dues . 
let us be clear . 
this is the point of contention , mr. speaker , that is , who controls the power of the purse . 
i submit at the beginning of this debate that the power of the purse is the power of the american people . 
it is not for the state department or even the secretary of state to say when and how the resources of the american people will be spent . 
that is the function of the congress of the united states even where the united nations is concerned . 
it is time to save the u.n . 
from its own scandals and mismanagement . 
it is time for u.n . 
reform with teeth . 
let us begin the debate . 
then let us pass the henry j. hyde u.n . 
reform act . 
