mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the provisions in this bill that address the unwillingness of mexico to extradite violent criminals back to the united states for prosecution . 
i want to be sure all of my colleagues are aware that we share our southern border with a country that willingly harbors criminals : rapists , robbers , and murderers . 
since 2001 , mexico has become a fugitive paradise where people accused of heinous crimes in the united states can escape from american justice . 
i would like to share one of these stories with members today . 
in 2002 , deputy david march , a 7-year veteran of the los angeles sheriff 's department , was brutally shot while performing a routine traffic stop at 10 : 30 in the morning . 
the suspect , armando garcia , fled to mexico to avoid prosecution . 
garcia was an illegal alien who disregarded our nation 's immigration laws when coming to california from mexico . 
once in the united states , he continued his life as a criminal plaguing our streets with drugs and engaging in other criminal activities , including two attempted murders . 
while he had already been deported three times , garcia again ignored our nation 's laws and illegally entered the united states a fourth time . 
this time , he brutally murdered a police officer who was merely stopping him for a routine traffic violation . 
garcia killed deputy march by shooting him execution style in the side of his chest where the bulletproof vest did not cover , and in the head . 
now this monster , who has demonstrated a total disregard for the laws of our country over and over again , walks free in mexico . 
even worse , his blatant contempt for our laws is being implicitly sanctioned by the mexican government which is protecting him from prosecution for his heinous crimes . 
mexican officials have refused to extradite garcia because he could face the death penalty or life in prison for murdering deputy david march . 
let us be clear , the mexican government is harboring a cop killer . 
every day law enforcement officers nobly protect our friends , neighbors , and families from crime . 
they work to improve the quality of life for all of us . 
sometimes they pay the ultimate sacrifice . 
for that , they and their families deserve our sincere appreciation and utmost respect . 
for 7 years , deputy march dedicated his life to the pursuit of justice and to the protection of our communities . 
we must honor the sacrifice that he and his family paid for our safety by pursuing justice for his senseless murder . 
i have met deputy march 's family . 
to see the pain and anger in their faces , knowing their son 's killer is roaming free across our southern border , is heart-breaking . 
we can not sit silently while mexico becomes a criminal black hole for murderers seeking to escape from justice . 
we must learn from deputy march 's murderer . 
if another country is unwilling to respect america 's laws , its citizens will also disregard our rule of law when they cross over our borders . 
i commend the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde ) xz4001920 for including a provision in this bill to urge the mexican government to reconsider its faulty extradition policy , and i hope my colleagues will support this and other legislative efforts to ensure that mexico respects the laws of the united states . 
