mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i rise for a few brief moments to speak on behalf of title vi of this bill which calls for far-reaching reforms in the areas of planning , management , conduct and accountability of peacekeeping operations within the united nations . 
it does , as the gentleman from california said quite accurately , it does involve some tough love and the potential for withholding support for the creation of new or expanded peacekeeping missions if the u.n . 
does not implement the most basic yet critically important reforms that are called for . 
as i have said before , the power of the purse is the power of the american people . 
while title iv of the peacekeeping reforms of this bill do not cut peacekeeping funds , they do withhold the expansion of any u.s. involvement in peacekeeping operations if these reforms are not enacted . 
the need for the reforms are obvious . 
the congo in this last calendar year , u.n . 
peacekeepers and civilian personnel stand accused of widespread sexual exploitation of refugees in the democratic republic of congo . 
in eritrea in 2005 , u.n . 
peacekeeping staff ran up more than $ 500 , 000 of unpaid international calls . 
in burundi in 2004 , two u.n . 
peacekeepers were suspended following allegations of sexual misconduct . 
in sierra leone in 2003 , u.n . 
peacekeepers were accused by human rights watch of systematic rape of women , and the list goes on and on and on . 
the need for reform is real . 
i am pleased to say there is broad agreement about the need for reform . 
in fact , the united nations special committee on peacekeeping operations has endorsed specifically all seven of the reforms that are included in this legislation . 
in fact , those reforms have been endorsed by prince zeid of jordan , the secretary general 's special advisor on sexual exploitation and abuse , and all but one , the signature of an oath , have already been adopted by the u.n . 
special committee . 
according to officials at the u.n. , most of these reforms are expected to be in place by the end of july 2005 . 
five of the peacekeeping reforms under this title are linked to immediate withholding of support for new and expanded missions . 
they are : the adoption of a uniform code of conduct ; the training of peacekeeping personnel on that code of conduct ; the signature of an oath to abide by the code of conduct ; design of programs to explain prohibited acts to host populations so there would be greater accountability for the behavior of peacekeepers ; and the creation of a centralized database to track these areas of misconduct . 
once again i say that officials at the u.n . 
believe that most of these reforms will be in place in a matter of weeks , so it is difficult to understand how requiring these reforms before any additional u.s. missions are approved under peacekeeping operations is a little hard to understand . 
two additional reforms are equally critical , but may require more time to implement : the adoption of a model memorandum of understanding ; and the establishment of an independent investigative audit that functions for peacekeeping missions . 
these are all part and parcel of restoring the credibility of the good work that u.n . 
peacekeepers have done throughout the past 60 years , and it is central to the principle of the henry j. hyde u.n . 
reform act that we stand , even with tough love , for the idea that we use the power of the purse , which is the power of the american people , in this case the threat of withholding additional missions to the united nations under peacekeeping operations to demand that these necessary reforms are implemented . 
