mr. speaker , first of all , let me echo what has been said about the gentleman from illinois ( mr. hyde ) xz4001920 . 
there has never been a finer member of congress in the history of the republic than the gentleman from illinois . 
he was one of the most eloquent speakers i have ever known in this house . 
we really appreciate all his hard work on this bill . 
now , let me say to my friend from massachusetts , i have been listening to this stuff for 20 years . 
you can not do anything to put pressure on the united nations , because if you do , the whole world is going to hate us . 
the sky is going to fall , henny penny . 
the state department has been working with the united nations for the last 20 years that i have been here and working on the foreign affairs committee , international relations now . 
the problems still exist . 
the only difference is , it is worse now than it has ever been . 
we have got to do something about it . 
mr. bolton needs to be confirmed on the other side because we need a tough guy over there to force the issue . 
we have got an oil-for-food scandal that is growing daily . 
kofi annan , the head of the united nations , the secretary-general , said , oh , i did n't have anything to do with it . 
we now are finding memos where he talked to the people in the oil industry saying that he would give them unqualified support . 
a few months ago , he said , oh , i never did that , and he said he would never resign under any circumstances . 
now he is hedging his bets on that because the case against him and the oil-for-food scandal is growing and growing and growing . 
he is the head man over there . 
on his watch , everything has been going haywire . 
we have got u.n . 
peacekeeping forces raping women and kids , and nothing has been done about that . 
we have got all kinds of problems over there and something must be done . 
how do you do that ? 
we say , well , let 's follow the same course we have been following for the last 20 years . 
the state department says , my gosh , we 'll go over there and we 'll do something about it . 
i have high regard for condoleezza rice . 
i think she is a dynamite lady and going to do a dynamite job . 
but this body needs to put the hammer by using american taxpayers ' dollars on the u.n . 
to clean up that mess over there . 
we can not go on day after day , week after week , month after month , year after year letting this thing be completely out of hand . 
the gentleman talked about the mitchell and gingrich report . 
they said that it is a mess over there . 
how do you clean it up ? 
you make a change from top to bottom . 
how do you do that when the rest of the world or much of the rest of the world says , oh , my gosh , we do n't want the united states dictating to us . 
i can understand that . 
we are the big guy on the block . 
they do not want us dictating to them , and we do not want to dictate to them . 
we want to work with them . 
but the fact of the matter is they are not listening in many cases and the corruption goes on and on and on , the mismanagement goes on and on and on , and nothing changes . 
and the united states keeps pouring in 25 percent , or almost that much , of the funds out of the taxpayers ' pockets in this country for that body . 
how do you change it ? 
you take out the hammer , and the hammer is the money . 
you say to the world body , the united nations , if you do n't clean up that mess , we are going to withhold funds . 
and if we withhold funds , you are going to have a big , big problem over there . 
mr. speaker , the gentleman from california ( mr. lantos ) xz4002310 is one of my dearest friends in this place and the gentleman from massachusetts is not a bad friend , either . 
we have traveled together . 
i have high regard for him , even though he is wrong a lot of the time . 
but i just want to say , something has to be done . 
there must be something in the water in massachusetts . 
i do not know . 
but something has to be done . 
and what has to be done is we have got to put pressure on the u.n . 
and the best way to do it is to say , either you change things over there or we are going to withdraw funds . 
