mr. chairman , this has been a fine debate today , and i believe that both sides have handled it very responsibly , but let us take a look at what the real issue is . 
there is broad agreement on both sides as to the need for reform in the united nations . 
this is not in contention . 
there is even broad agreement of what changes need to be made , what are the issues at the united nations , a lack of accountability and some of these monstrous atrocities that we have seen , and the inefficiency and corruption that we have seen at the u.n . 
there is agreement on the problem . 
the fundamental difference between the sides of this debate is whether or not there should be consequences if the united nations does not reform . 
what is going on ? 
the american people understand that in order to get an organization like the united nations to reform , there must be consequences . 
do we think the united nations , this entrenched bureaucracy , will just say , oh , we 're enlightened by the wonderful debate that we 've heard , you 've appealed to our heart , that they are going to make the changes that are necessary to prevent corruption in their organization that they have lived with for years because we have touched their hearts , we have reached their intellect ? 
no . 
we have got to make sure that there are consequences if they do not reform , or they will not pay any attention to us . 
you remember the old show truth or consequences ? 
unless we provide consequences for activities and actions that are wrong , we are not going to get any truth . 
there will be no truth unless they have consequences for telling us lies . 
for years we have lived with the lie that the united nations is somewhat above corruption , that the united nations represents the best of humankind . 
it will only represent the best of humankind and reach these higher standards if we say to them , if you are not living up to these standards , there is a price to pay . 
the american people deserve to get their money 's worth . 
we deserve to try to put pressure on the united nations to live up to its standards . 
if we just give them a free pass , whether or not they reform or not , there will be no reform at the united nations , and all of this will have gone for nothing . 
