mr. chairman , i rise in opposition to this bill . 
let me begin by thanking chairman regula , ranking member obey and their staff for their hard work in bringing this bill to the house floor . 
although the committee has done its best , it is shameful the committee had a limited amount of money to fund america 's highest domestic priorities . 
this republican led congress and the administration has put the $ 140 , 000 tax cuts for people who make $ 1 million or more a year ; and spending $ 250 billion fighting the war in iraq and afghanistan ahead of the need to invest in our children , our education system , our health care system , and job training programs that will help american families . 
this bill does fund many of the programs that the administration wanted to cut or eliminate programs such as trio , gear up , vocational education state grants and adult education programs . 
however , the bill before us today sorely underfunds or eliminates too many programs . 
the bill zeroes out 48 programs . 
the list is enclosed . 
also , the bill provides the smallest increase for the national institutes of health in 36 years . 
this bill cuts $ 806 million from no child left behind . 
this bill provides only a $ 50 increase in pell grants , despite hundreds of dollars of increases in college tuitions and costs . 
this bill cuts the employment service program by $ 116 million . 
the employment service program helps the unemployed with finding jobs and with 7.6 million americans out of work this program is critical . 
quality pre-natal care and health services for low-income mothers and infants should be a priority but this bill cuts the maternal and child health block grant program by $ 24 million and the healthy start program targeted to communities with high infant mortality by $ 5 million . 
the low-income energy assistance program that helps families pay heating bills is cut by $ 198 million at a time when gas prices are at their highest . 
the safe and drug free schools program to keep school aged children off drugs and alcohol is cut by $ 37 million , which will devastate many families and communities . 
preventative health block grants to state health departments are cut by $ 31 million . 
the bill slashes the education technology program by $ 196 million . 
the community college initiative is cut in half by $ 125 million . 
it freezes after-school centers for the fourth year in a row . 
mr. chairman , this bill eliminates 48 programs , including the elimination of $ 100 million department of health and human services ' contribution to the global fund to fight hiv/aids , malaria and tuberculosis . 
it eliminates comprehensive school grants for 1 , 000 high-poverty school districts by eliminating the program . 
this bill eliminates 10 out of the 12 title vii health profession training programs . 
these programs help ease the shortage of doctors , dentists , and other health professionals in underserved areas . 
this bill eliminates the health communities access program that helps health centers and public hospitals better serve the uninsured . 
mr. chairman , h.r. 3010 does not invest in our future , our families , or our country . 
the needs and values of americans are not addressed . 
this bill shortchanges the american people . 
the appropriations committee had to make tough choices because of the strict budget allocations brought on by the misguided and irresponsible tax cuts for the richest of americans and the cost of the war , but programs that help millions of americans should not be on the chopping block . 
congress is walking away from our commitment to equal opportunity and a better quality of life for all americans . 
greater access to job training , better jobs , affordable healthcare , quality education , and closing the disparity gap should be our goal . 
the labor , health & amp ; human services , and education bill falls far short of achieving these goals and strengthening american families . 
