mr. chairman , i move to strike the last word . 
mr. chairman , i take this time at the end of the bill to explain why i am going to vote against the bill . 
i am speaking as one member of the house ; i am not speaking as ranking democrat on the subcommittee or committee . 
i simply wanted people to know why i am going to oppose this bill ; and i want to , at the same time , explain my motion to recommit . 
the good thing about this bill is that we repaired most of the damage to the corporation for public broadcasting . 
most , but not all . 
but let us understand , this bill , in my view , is still an assault on the country 's future . 
this bill is just the start of cuts planned over a 5-year period to implement the republican budget resolution that is placing the importance of $ 140 , 000 tax cuts for those making $ 1 million a year ahead of our long-term investments in education of our children , the health care of our people , and the security of american workers . 
this is the most important bill that we will consider this year in terms of meeting the needs of the average american family and in building the long-term strength of our society . 
more than any other , it is the bill where we care for our neighbors . 
it is the bill that determines how well we meet our obligations to those in society who have not been among the most fortunate . 
this bill fails to meet those tests in some dramatic ways , and i would like to point out just a few of them . 
because of the fact that this house is deciding that large tax cuts for very well-off people are more important than anything else , this bill , on the worker protection front , guts the program that we rely on to try to protect our workers from having to compete against child and slave labor . 
it cuts that program by 87 percent , this at a time when the administration is asking that we pass new trade legislation with cafta . 
seven and a half million americans are out of work , but this bill cuts the employment service by $ 116 million . 
forty-five million americans are without health insurance , but this eliminates community access programs that help people get that health care . 
this bill cuts by 84 percent the funding for training grants for health care professionals . 
it cuts rural health programs by 41 percent . 
the number of grants at nih for research in all kinds of diseases will be cut by 500 from just 2 years ago . 
the community services block grant , the program where the poorest people in this country turn when they have nowhere else to go , is cut by half in this bill , and the no child left behind bill is cut by some $ 800 million below last year . 
mr. chairman , 1.7 million fewer disadvantaged children will receive care under after-school programs , and 56 , 000 fewer teachers will get high-quality training . 
this bill provides only half of the increase promised by the republican majority for the maximum pell grant . 
so for all of those reasons , i am going to offer a straight motion to recommit so that this bill can go back to committee , so that these items can be corrected , with one addition . 
as we said earlier , we found out today that our efforts to try to increase funding for veterans health care for the last 6 months were absolutely necessary , even though we had been told by the va that they had more than enough money for veterans health care . 
we want this bill to go back to the committee so that the committee can also do what it should have done in the first place , which is to add $ 1 billion on an emergency basis to take care of the shortfall in va health care that the white house and omb have been hiding from the american people and hiding from veterans for months . 
so i will personally urge a vote for my motion to recommit ; and when the vote on final passage comes , i will vote against it , because this bill just does not measure up to our national obligations . 
