mr. speaker , i rise in opposition to h. res. 344 , which blames china for our dependence on foreign oil . 
the republican majority has already sold the entire farm to foreign central banks and multinational corporations , and now they 're trying to tell the american people that they 're standing up for them by stopping china from buying a leftover chicken . 
mr. speaker , where were these patriotic republicans when the house passed an energy bill and could n't even muster the votes to raise fuel economy standards on automobiles ? 
where were they when we passed trade deals and tax laws to make it easier for their corporate friends to ship jobs to china ? 
why has president bush refused to stand up for american workers who wither against illegal dumping practices and an undervalued chinese currency ? 
the american people need to know : as long as the republican majority and their corporate friends get their tax breaks and boondoggle defense contracts , they do n't care who pays the bill . 
china , in turn , is happy to prop up the dollar and finance the debt because it gives them great leverage over the u.s. for years to come . 
no empty resolution like this or indignant politician can change that . 
so why are we talking about china now when they have been stocking oil supplies and u.s. currency for years with no change in course from this administration ? 
it 's very simple : cheap chinese imports and labor enrich the pockets of the people who really matter in the republican party , but a chinese company owning unocal does nothing for the base . 
this non-binding resolution is a talking point for july 4th barbecues , just the way the republicans will tell their constituents that they 're making them safer by throwing billions more into the quagmire in iraq . 
mr. speaker , i have proudly voted for renewable energy , against trade deals that sell out american workers , and against tax breaks for millionaires financed by foreign governments . 
i support real economic security , and i will not support this sham resolution to give cover to my greedy colleagues and their corporate contributors . 
