mr. speaker , i had hoped to come to the well to speak on a bipartisan resolution . 
given the preceding remarks from the well , it may be difficult for international observers to detect the bipartisanship . 
rather than succumb to the temptation of snappy rejoinders in the field of domestic political debate , rather than use this time as a pretext for a campaign screed that would criticize the opposing party instead of deal with the resolution at hand , rather than rephrase history about troubling campaign donations that emanated from the people 's republic of china , perhaps it is best , mr. speaker , to deal with the resolution at hand , and find some common agreement , apart from the grandstanding and campaigning that is so easily enjoined . 
fact number one : just as dwight eisenhower warned america about the growing influence of a military industrial complex , the fact is , there is a political business military complex in the martial markets of communist china . 
what do i mean by that ? 
the communist chinese do not enjoy free markets . 
they , instead , have a program of martial markets . 
american investment is kept in minority status ; and every application , from the most innocuous widget to the fried chicken drumstick , eventually brings proceeds to the chinese red army . 
and now we have the most graphic example , where the chinese-owned energy company , with government , communist government investment , seeks to buy an american oil company . 
it has been said that information is power . 
energy literally is power . 
early in the 21st century , though we may look to new technological advantages , the fact is this : a nation that surrenders its energy concerns , its energy technology is a nation inviting vulnerability . 
and so i would enjoin members of this house , mr. speaker , as tempting as political debate and one-upsmanship might be , not to succumb to the temptation , not to stand as republicans or democrats or independent or libertarians or vegetarians , but to stand as americans . 
support this resolution because we dare not yield our energy future to the communist chinese . 
