mr. speaker , i have come down on these four bills and i have come for a variety of reasons , but one main reason is to make those corrections that are so necessary with the arguments on the other side . 
we have heard , why can we not have investigations ? 
why can we not consider another bill ? 
why can we not do this or that ? 
well , these are all interesting questions but they have nothing to do with this bill . 
the hyperbole from the opposition has been remarkable . 
the contention , they would say , is that unless you are going to win , do not bring the case . 
that is not what this bill says . 
this bill simply provides that if the small business owner wins , then osha should be responsible for the attorneys ' fees . 
we seek to improve osha and make it responsive to the intent of congress . 
this bill is designed to strengthen small business and to save jobs . 
again , the magnitude of this issue , 99.7 percent of all businesses are small businesses , 75 percent of all new jobs are in the area of small business . 
osha has a budget of $ 468 million , with 2 , 200 employees and 1 , 100 inspectors . 
the deck is stacked . 
yes , it is stacked ; it is stacked against those most beneficial to our economy , small business owners and their employees . 
h.r. 742 would allow a small businessman or -woman to recover attorneys ' fees if they contest and they win , they win , an allegation in a citation by osha . 
remember osha 's budget , $ 468 million ? 
you win , osha was wrong . 
right ? 
osha was wrong , but you spent thousands of dollars to defend your business and your workers ' jobs . 
remember , you win against a $ 468 million budget . 
so osha should reimburse your attorneys ' fees . 
right ? 
just like current law . 
right ? 
wrong . 
you can not win . 
even if you win your case , you may be out the amount of money it cost to defend yourself . 
less money in your business means fewer jobs . 
remember , reimbursement only occurs if you win . 
if you lose , you are responsible , and that is as it should be . 
so let us stop punishing the backbone of our economy . 
let us stop punishing small businesses and employees and workers . 
i urge support for h.r. 742 , one of four commonsense worker-friendly , job-friendly , small business-friendly bills before us today . 
