mr. chairman , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
mr. chairman , i rise in strong support of the children 's safety act of 2005 . 
i commend the gentleman from wisconsin ( mr. sensenbrenner ) xz4003650 for this legislation and appreciate very much the bipartisan way in which he has worked with me in developing this legislation and in listening to the concerns that i have brought from experiences in our region . 
deviant sexual predators have clearly shown us that sex offenders do not stop at state lines , and neither should our sex offender laws . 
the children 's safety act is a comprehensive , bipartisan child safety bill that brings uniformity to our current sex offender registry system and increases penalties for those who prey upon our children . 
the urgent need for a national system is clearly and tragically demonstrated by the case of dru sjodin . 
dru sjodin was a lovely young woman , a senior at the university of north dakota , where she was holding down two jobs . 
she was an exceptional student , a leader in our community . 
she was abducted from a shopping center parking lot in broad daylight on a saturday afternoon nearly 2 years ago . 
this type of disappearance never happens in our part of the country , and it traumatized the whole community . 
thousands spent weeks trudging through snow banks in the worst weather we ever saw searching for dru . 
well , 5 months later , her dead body was found in a ravine just outside of crookston , minnesota . 
it just so happens the investigation has revealed that a recently released level iii sex offender from minnesota named alfonso rodriguez , jr. , was charged with dru 's kidnapping and murder . 
he was living in minnesota . 
we did not know of his existence in north dakota . 
he was registered as a sex offender only in the state of minnesota . 
this tragic example illustrates why we have to have a comprehensive response here , a nationwide internet available , a registry system that families can access . 
it provides the kind of information in terms of where these high-risk offenders are living , where they are working , going to school , what kind of vehicle they are driving . 
people need this information to keep their children safe , and that is why i am proud to be a cosponsor of this bill and pleased that the chairman has designated in the legislation this registry in memory of dru sjodin , the dru sjodin national sex offender registry . 
the bill also has tough requirements for complying with keeping the registration information current so that the information on there is of value to families . 
it also has tough sanctions for those who would harm our children and , finally , federal dollars to assist local police departments in making certain that people are complying with their registry requirements . 
i believe that this legislation is a comprehensive response to a significant public policy need , and i urge the adoption of this . 
families need this protection . 
