mr. chairman , i yield myself such time as i may consume . 
i am pleased to bring to the house floor today h.r. 3132 , the children 's safety act of 2005 . 
i introduced this legislation on june 30 in a bipartisan effort to address the growing epidemic of violence against children and the need for greater protection from convicted sex offenders through state registration and notification programs . 
this year our country has been shocked by a series of brutal attacks against children at the hands of convicted sex offenders . 
in june , our nation was horrified by the kidnapping and murders of members of the groene family by a convicted sex offender . 
two well-publicized tragedies earlier this year in florida , in which 9-year-old jessica lunsford and 13-year-old sarah lunde were murdered by convicted sex offenders further underscore the need for quick congressional action to address the danger posed by individuals who prey on children . 
in addition to the widely reported tragedies that have rightly brought this issue to the forefront , the statistics regarding the frequency with which such heinous crimes occur are staggering . 
statistics show that one in five girls and one in 10 boys are sexually exploited before they reach adulthood . 
yet less than 35 percent of the incidents are reported to authorities . 
according to the department of justice , one in five children between the ages of 10 and 17 receive unwanted sexual solicitations online . 
additionally , statistics show that 67 percent of all victims of sexual assault were juveniles under the age of 18 , and 34 percent were under the age of 12 . 
in june of this year , the subcommittee on crime , terrorism and homeland security held a series of three hearings on child crimes issues , focusing on violent crimes against children , sexual exploitation of children , and the sex offender registration and notification program and related legislative proposals . 
on july 30 , the judiciary committee considered this bill and ordered it favorably reported by an overwhelming vote of 22 to 4. mr. chairman , there are over 550 , 000 sex offenders in the country ; and it is conservatively estimated that at least 100 , 000 of them are lost in the system , meaning that nonregistered sex offenders are living in our communities and working at locations where they can , and likely will , come into contact with our children . 
this is simply unacceptable , and the legislation specifically targets this problem to enhance the safety of america 's families and communities . 
the children 's safety act will make much needed reforms to the sex offender and registration program by expanding the scope and duration of sex offender registration and notification requirements to a larger number of sex offenders . 
the legislation also requires states to provide internet availability of sex offender information , requires timely registration by sex offenders , and then enhances penalties for their failure to register and increases the disclosure requirements regarding their whereabouts . 
the bill authorizes united states marshals to apprehend sex offenders who fail to register and increases grants to states to apprehend sex offenders who are in violation of registration requirements contained in the legislation . 
additionally , h.r. 3132 would authorize demonstration programs for new electronic monitoring programs such as anklets and global position system monitoring , which will require examination of multijurisdictional monitoring procedures . 
h.r. 3132 also revises the use of dna evidence ; increases penalties for violent crimes committed against children , and sexual exploitation of children ; streamlines habeas review ; state death penalties are imposed against child killers ; and protects foster children by requiring states to perform more complete background checks before approving a foster or adoptive parent program and placement . 
this legislation is strongly supported by america 's most wanted , john walsh ; ernie allen from the national center for missing and exploited children ; robbie calloway from the boys and girls clubs of america ; and many victims and representatives of victims organizations . 
the courage of some , such as the father of jessica lunsford , to speak out on this important issue in the face of unmistakable grief is truly admirable . 
they have provided critical input throughout the process and have urged congress to enact this legislation as quickly as possible . 
mr. chairman , the time to protect our nation 's children from sexual predators in our communities and online on the internet is now . 
the scope of this problem requires a swift congressional response , and i urge members of this body to move swiftly to help protect america 's children from violent sexual offenders . 
mr. chairman , i reserve the balance of my time . 
