mr. speaker , house resolution 469 is a rule that provides for consideration of house joint resolution 68 , making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2006 . 
this rule provides for 1 hour of debate in the house , equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the committee on appropriations . 
the rule waives all points of order against consideration of the joint resolution . 
the rule provides one motion to recommit the joint resolution . 
additionally , the resolution provides that suspensions will be in order at any time on the legislative day of thursday , october 6 , 2005 , and the speaker or his designee shall consult the minority leader or her designee on any suspension considered under the rule . 
lastly , the rule provides that a motion to proceed pursuant to section 2908 of the defense base closure and realignment act of 1990 shall be in order only if offered by the majority leader or his designee . 
mr. speaker , i want to commend the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the entire house committee on appropriations on both sides of the aisle for sticking to the timetable they laid out at the start of this legislative session . 
in an impressive display of bipartisanship and just sheer hard work , the house passed all 11 appropriations bills prior to the july 4 district work period . 
since july , the senate has returned to us only the interior and legislative branch appropriations bills , which have each been signed into law by the president . 
additionally , the senate has passed six of its remaining 10 appropriations bills . 
these six are awaiting closure in conference . 
we are now just anticipating action from the senate on those last four appropriations bills so we can move forward , finish the appropriations process , and avoid a cumbersome omnibus funding bill . 
unfortunately , the appropriations process within the two bodies has not been completed prior to the start of the new fiscal year which , of course , begins this october 1. we must institute a continuing resolution in order to allow the government to function through november 18 , 2005 , while we complete consideration of the remaining appropriations bills , waiting on the senate to complete their final actions , and for the conference committees to do their work . 
this rule allows consideration of the imperative funding measure . 
i am most impressed with the work of the committee on appropriations on this continuing resolution . 
throughout the appropriations process , the committee has shown its commitment to the budget resolution and to fiscal responsibility . 
the committee has funded programs and activities at the lowest level of the house-passed level , the senate-passed level , or the fiscal year 2005 current rate . 
for agencies for which the senate has not passed a bill by the start of a new fiscal year , the funding rate is at the lower of the house-passed level , or the fiscal year 2005 current rate . 
the legislation includes language prohibiting agencies from initiating or resuming programs or procurements not funded in the fiscal year 2005 , and prohibits agencies from awarding new grants and certain other forms of assistance during the period of the cr , which , of course , is through november 18 of this year . 
i again congratulate the gentleman from california ( chairman lewis ) and the gentleman from wisconsin ( ranking member obey ) and the entire committee for their hard work this year . 
i urge members to support this rule and the underlying cr so that we can finish the appropriations process , move down the road to responsible funding for the needs of this nation , and avoid a cumbersome omnibus funding bill . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
