mr. speaker , i yield myself the balance of my time . 
i applaud the gentleman 's bipartisan effort to find ways to pay for these unanticipated expenses that we have come across , and i wish him the best in that effort . 
i think it is important that we all recognize on both sides of the aisle that offsets are going to be necessary and that we do have to reprioritize . 
as the gentleman knows , the president submitted a list through the regular budget process of 150 programs to cut or eliminate earlier this year , and some of them received some attention and others received more attention than others . 
it is certainly a difficult proposition in this town to eliminate any program , but the president led early this year with that thought in mind and he had mixed success . 
again , recognizing the importance of your bipartisan effort and recognizing the facts that we are going to have to have these offsets , this bill , this rule that we are here to consider essentially keeps the government from shutting down while we have that debate . 
it appears that there is genuine broad support for the cr and for the rule , and i appreciate that . 
mr. speaker , i thank the gentlewoman from california ( ms. matsui ) xz4006631 for her work on the rules committee and what is essentially a broad commitment that we have to have this cr through november 18 . 
frankly , it is not for lack of effort on the house side . 
both parties have a lot of reasons to be proud of the efforts of our appropriators and the entire house . 
we had a herculean effort this summer to move these bills on schedule , move them out before july 4th , and because of supreme court nominations and everything else obviously the senate has had other issues on their agenda , and we are in a holding pattern on the appropriations . 
nobody wants to see the government shut down after saturday , so it is important that we move this rule , move the underlying cr , and allow the regular order , the talent and skills that exist within this house , to work their magic as we deal with these unanticipated effects from two gulf storms , and we are not even finished with hurricane season yet . 
mr. speaker , i yield back the balance of my time , and i move the previous question on the resolution . 
the previous question was ordered . 
the resolution was agreed to . 
a motion to reconsider was laid on the table . 
