mr. speaker , i rise today in opposition to h.r. 3893 , which pretends to be a response to our nation 's exorbitant energy costs , but which is actually a giveaway to oil and gas companies that does n't help america 's struggling consumers . 
in fact , many of the provisions in this legislation are not new ; we have seen them before , but they have proven so controversial that they were excluded from the energy bill that congress passed earlier this year . 
rhode islanders are paying an average of $ 2.86 for a gallon of gasoline , and high home heating oil and natural gas prices are causing families to wonder how they will be able to afford to stay warm in the coming winter months . 
in recent weeks , rhode islanders have learned of two utility rate increases for both electricity and gas . 
these proposed increases come at a time when the average price of gasoline at the pump is up 51 percent , compared with last year , and home heating oil is up 57 percent in the same period . 
congress must take swift action to reduce the cost of energy , but this bill benefits only the oil and gas industries , which have been reaping record profits in recent months . 
we have heard legitimate questions about how much of the recent increase in energy costs is the result of price fixing , yet this legislation 's provisions to combat price gouging are insufficient and amount to no more than a slap on the wrist . 
furthermore , it would reverse long-standing health and environmental protections , despite strong opposition nationwide to these proposals . 
in fact , one of the bill 's original provisions -- expanding loopholes for refineries and power plants to avoid compliance with the clean air act -- was deemed so controversial that it was removed in the dead of night . 
i support the democratic plan to establish strong federal laws and new penalties to crack down on price gouging . 
the stupak-boucher substitute empowers the federal trade commission to combat price gouging for gasoline , diesel , natural gas , home heating oil , and propane . 
unlike the republican bill , the democratic proposal includes real penalties for price gouging and energy market manipulation -- up to $ 3 million per day . 
additionally , the democratic plan would create a strategic refinery reserve , which like the strategic petroleum reserve , would improve our nation 's ability to prevent oil and gasoline shortages in the wake of a natural disaster such as a hurricane . 
our nation needs a new , long-term energy policy that encourages the use of renewable fuels and energy conservation efforts . 
to this end , i have cosponsored legislation to increase automobile fuel efficiency standards and have strongly supported congressman inslee 's new apollo energy act , which would establish a nationwide commitment to developing and promoting new energy sources for the future . 
this strategy is important not only for our economy , but also for our national security . 
unfortunately , the republican bill considered today does nothing to move us toward that goal , but instead offers us more of the failed policies of the past . 
i urge my colleagues to support the stupak-boucher substitute and to oppose h.r. 3893 . 
