mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time , and i rise in strong opposition to this bill . 
it is ironic that this bill is called the gasoline for america 's security act , or gas act , because this bill is certainly filled with a lot of hot air . 
this bill will do nothing to bring down the cost of gasoline . 
my constituents and millions of americans want to know why they are paying $ 3 and more for gasoline . 
just today in the newspaper it reported that americans can expect to spend 45 to 90 percent more on home heating fuel this year than they did last winter . 
this is absolutely unconscionable . 
we saw during hurricane katrina looters in new orleans , but the real looters are the big oil companies . 
they are looting the american people . 
they are making record profits . 
what does this bill do ? 
it does nothing to bring down the price of gasoline . 
that is what americans want . 
they do not want rhetoric . 
they do not want more sop to the oil and gas industry . 
they do not want more of the same . 
since i am from the bronx , i will quote yogi berra of the yankees : it is deja vu all over again . 
once again , the majority has presented us with legislation that purports to respond to skyrocketing gas prices , but does nothing of the sort . 
under the guise of responding to hurricane katrina , we are voting on a bill that guts environmental and public health protections and does nothing to reduce our nation 's devastating dependence on middle eastern oil . 
further , we are once again witnessing the majority undermining states ' rights on the floor of the house . 
this bill includes provisions that preempt state and local government 's authority to decide where refinery facilities are placed in individual communities . 
what this country critically needs , but was neither in the energy policy act of 2005 , which was signed into law , nor in this bill , is a policy to reduce our addiction to oil through the promotion of alternatives and clean renewables , automotive fuel efficiency and the reduction of greenhouse gases . 
we must create policies that achieve these goals , and we need not destroy the environment and the rights of our citizens in doing so . 
this is a sop to the industry . 
it gives us more of the same . 
it does nothing to lower gas prices . 
i urge a `` no '' vote . 
