mr. speaker , the spike in gasoline prices after hurricanes katrina and rita has drawn national attention to domestic energy supplies , as well as fuel efficiency standards . 
instead of the bush administration and the republican congress offering a bill reducing gas prices , home heating prices , declare our nation 's energy independence , protect the environment , and put funds into increasing energy research and development , this republican congress promotes a bill that includes massive subsidies to oil companies at the expense of americans . 
hurricanes katrina and rita devastated much of the energy infrastructure in the gulf of mexico . 
the region contains 47 percent of the nation 's oil refining capacity , and 19 percent of the nation 's natural gas production . 
immediately after hurricane katrina the national average price for gasoline increased 46 cents to $ 3.07 per gallon . 
home heating costs , including home heating oil , natural gas and electricity are predicted to increase 50-90 percent over last year 's prices . 
since 2001 , home heating oil costs have nearly tripled , and natural gas costs have more than doubled , nearing crisis levels for homeowners and americans on a fixed and low income . 
president bush recently gave a speech calling on consumers to conserve gasoline and other fuels . 
i have yet to hear the president urge oil , coal , utility , and energy companies to reduce their costs . 
during a time oil and refinery company profits are more than 200 percent , the republican solution is to offer subsidies to a profitable industry , to rollback environmental regulations , and to increase gasoline and home heating prices to americans . 
this bill is anti-consumer and anti-environment . 
the american people need real relief at the gas pump and with their heating bills . 
democrats support an energy policy that helps americans by stopping price gouging and increasing refinery capacity to keep gas and home heating prices low . 
the bill before us today will do nothing to lower gas prices at the pump or lower home heating costs . 
if the alternative offered by my michigan colleague , representative bart stupak is accepted , we would have a strong energy bill . 
the stupak substitute gives the federal trade commission new powers to prohibit price gouging for gasoline , diesel , natural gas , home heating oil , and propane . 
the substitute also creates a new strategic refinery reserve that would give our country the ability to produce refined oil products during extreme energy situations . 
this approach is more favorable and will help americans at this most difficult time . 
the underlying legislation is a bad deal for america . 
i urge my colleagues to join me in voting against passage of the energy bill . 
