mr. speaker , i rise in strong opposition to this bill and in support of the stupak-boucher substitute . 
this bill does nothing to help us gain energy independence , to increase refining capacity , or lower prices at the pump . 
and no member , and particularly no one who represents the midwest , should vote for this bill . 
the federal energy information agency predicted that the price of natural gas would increase by 71 percent in the midwest this winter . 
in chicago , the average heating bill is predicted to be $ 1 , 475 per household . 
yet , instead of addressing an impending heating crisis and protecting consumers , this bill is filled with giveaways to the same energy companies that are making record profits in the aftermath of the hurricanes . 
this bill 's attempt to prevent gasoline price gouging is little more than a charade . 
but this bill does not even pretend to prevent natural gas companies from gouging consumers . 
even though natural gas prices are four times what they were in 2001 , there is no mention of natural gas in the price gouging section of this bill . 
for natural gas suppliers and distributors , this bill is a green light to jack up the prices . 
in illinois , to qualify for the low income home energy assistance program , a family of four must earn under $ 29 , 000 a year , under that . 
because of increasing energy costs , liheap has covered a smaller share of a family 's average heating bill over the last 4 years , and that share will be lower this year due to these record price spikes . 
this winter , millions more americans may find that they can not pay their home heating bills , not just poor americans . 
what are we doing to protect them ? 
the democratic substitute gives the ftc new authority to prevent and punish corporations that gouge consumers for the oil , gasoline , and natural gas they need to get to work , heat their homes , and run their businesses . 
it is the only proposal before the house today that will address the impending heating crisis facing millions of americans this winter . 
mr. speaker , we were unprepared for katrina . 
we can not let that happen again . 
members in this body are faced with a choice : representing consumers and small businesses , or big oil companies . 
we should not leave the american people in the cold this winter while energy companies are left with money to burn . 
