mr. speaker , i rise today in vigorous support of h.r. 3893 . 
this bill takes us back to earth in reality . 
this bill recognizes the need for increased supplies of refined petroleum products and takes the necessary steps to increase refining capacity . 
no new refinery has been constructed in the united states since 1976 . 
we just heard the numbers earlier . 
the demand for gasoline exceeds domestic production by an average of 4 million barrels per day . 
this growing gap is met by importing refined petroleum from foreign sources , which is a threat to market stability and national security . 
refining capacity is not being increased , due in part to a permitting process that is overly cumbersome and capital intensive . 
the two hurricanes only further exposed the lack of a comprehensive national energy security policy . 
currently , 20 percent of our nation 's refinery production is shut down . 
600 , 000 barrels are off line in my southwest louisiana district . 
this bill makes the necessary commitments to expand and diversify the refining industry in this country . 
by reforming and expediting a permitting process that is excessively slow and nearly impossible to navigate , we will enable refiners to meets the energy needs of america 's citizens . 
this legislation would not circumvent or remove any environmental protection , but would simply coordinate and streamline the process . 
it would also encourage investment in new pipelines and expansion of existing infrastructure to transport petroleum products more efficiently and at a lower cost to consumers . 
the farmers of louisiana need to harvest crops . 
the industries of louisiana need to rebuild , and families of louisiana would like to return . 
affordable energy is going to be an important factor in our ability to do that . 
the people of my district have realized the responsibility of providing fuel for this nation for a long time , and they are happy to do so . 
it is now time to give them the tools to meet this growing task and share it with others . 
i urge the passage of this bill . 
