mr. speaker , i thank the chairman for putting this bill together . 
i want to talk about one very important provision of this bill , and i want to endorse the passage of this legislation . 
this legislation builds on progress we had in the energy bill dealing with boutique fuels , but what i want to do is explain the problem we have with boutique gasoline blends in america . 
today we have 18 different fuel types , which translates into 45 different fuel blends . 
this map of america looks like a piece of modern art and shows the different fuel blends we have to have running through america today . 
when we designed our pipeline and refinery system three generations ago , it was designed for one kind of gasoline : conventional gasoline . 
today we have to pump 45 different blends of gasoline through that system . 
any time there is a problem with supply , a pipeline break , a hurricane , a refinery fire , what happens ? 
the price of gas skyrockets . 
there are refineries that can not even make the needed gasoline for particular areas . 
the problem is getting worse . 
this map is because we have 217 counties that have to have some kind of reformulated boutique fuel . 
because of the new , 8-hour ozone regulations this year , 474 counties will have to adopt new blends of gasoline so the problem will get even worse if we do nothing . 
this bill fixes that . 
this bill says that , over the next year , the epa and the doe will have to design a six-fuel-blend system . 
so we go from 18 different base blends with 45 different fuels down to six fuels , to make sure we can meet and exceed our clean air act standards , no compromise on those , and have stable , fungible blends of gasoline . 
mr. speaker , we can have cheap gas and clean gas at the same time in this country . 
we need to harmonize our gasoline blends so we have standard , stable blends of gasoline . 
if we do that , we stabilize the supply . 
if we do that , we stabilize the price . 
i urge passage of this legislation . 
