mr. speaker , one of the things that you can say about the way in which the national republican party has handled america 's energy problem is that they are being very consistent , and that goes back to the first moment when they controlled both the congress and the white house ; when the president , charged by the bush administration to develop an energy policy , did the natural thing for them , brought in the energy companies to tell them what kind of policy we should have . 
that attitude is reflected in this bill , as well as the one that this congress passed last july . 
they are both deferential to the energy companies at the expense of the american people . 
everything goes to the energy companies ; nothing goes to the american people . 
the energy companies last year , the oil companies , made record profits , more than $ 125 billion . 
one corporation alone made more than $ 25 billion in profits in 2004 . 
their profits in 2005 are even higher , while the american people struggle to get back and forth to work because of the price of gasoline and as they will struggle this winter to heat their homes to try to stay safe and secure . 
lives will be lost because of the way in which the national republican party is handling this energy problem . 
in order to justify gasoline being sold at $ 3 a gallon under a free , open market , you would have to have oil priced at $ 95 a barrel . 
but we do not have a free and open market , even though the republicans claim we do . 
we have a market that is controlled by the oil companies , for the oil companies and against the interests of the american people , and all of that is conspired and entered into by the national republican party , in the white house and in this congress as well . 
that is what we are seeing here today in the context of this legislation : more for the oil companies , less for americans . 
struggle , struggle , struggle for the american worker ; struggle , struggle , struggle for the american family , while huge profits are given to the oil companies over and over again . 
it has got to stop . 
defeat this rule , defeat the bill , pass the stupak substitute . 
