mr. speaker , the gun industry would like to see this legislation passed today so that they can protect their profits . 
but i would like to talk about the real people who will be affected by this bill , people who have suffered enough . 
i would like to talk about a 26-year-old father of two from my home state of massachusetts whose death was a direct result of negligence by a gun maker . 
five years ago , danny guzman was leaving a holiday party to go home to see his daughters , tammy and selena , but he never made it home . 
standing on the street , danny guzman was struck down by a stray bullet fired from a 9 millimeter handgun . 
that gun that killed him made its way into criminal hands because a gun factory employee had stolen it from his workplace and sold it on the black market . 
but this is no isolated incident . 
in that same year , over 25 , 000 guns hit america 's streets after being stolen or lost under suspicious circumstances . 
and , according to court testimony in the case , stealing guns happened at the plant `` all the time , '' and it happened all the time because no system was in place to prevent theft . 
it happened all the time because the gun company was negligent . 
and , in this particular case , the employee got his job at the gun plant despite a criminal record that included a history of drug abuse , theft , and violence . 
mr. speaker , when big tobacco lied about the dangers of smoking , we held them accountable . 
when the pharmaceutical industry markets dangerous drugs , we hold them accountable , too . 
but what do we do when gun makers and dealers ruin countless lives through their reckless behavior , through their negligence ? 
this house considers legislation to provide them special protection and to deny gun victims and their families the justice they deserve . 
if this bill becomes law , the guzman family in massachusetts , in addition to losing a husband , a son , and a father , will lose their right of legal recourse and justice . 
it would be an unspeakably cruel case of justice denied . 
i strongly oppose this legislation and i urge my colleagues to do the same . 
businesses in the firearms industry do not deserve special treatment under the law . 
