mr. speaker , the first thing is , here we go again . 
if we are rewarding an ally for helping us in iraq , where i understand there are no bahranian troops , but we have got a navy base . 
well , if we are paying off for a navy base , how about cuba ? 
why do we not throw these guys in ? 
i think we have got a big base in cuba where we are torturing prisoners , so why not toss them in if that is the reason for going into this free trade agreement . 
the problem with the bahrain free trade agreement is the same ones that we have had with australia , morocco , cafta . 
and the administration keeps sending the same flawed arguments and agreements . 
i have supported trade . 
but it has got to be fair before it can be free . 
and unfortunately , this administration does not see it that way . 
like our recent free trade agreements , it fails to promote basic labor rights , environmental standards , and is a payback or a sell out to phrma for letting the pharmaceutical industry write into these agreements wording that extends their patents and extends the time before generic medicines are available . 
now , it may be that bahrain is somewhat richer than other nations and can wait longer , but it is a bad policy . 
you are going to hear today about bahrain 's labor rights . 
that is great . 
but it does not hold them responsible for maintaining those improvements . 
it is sort of enforce your own laws , and bahrain could change those laws tomorrow . 
the same hollow standards apply to environmental protections . 
they could be changed . 
my 10-year-old son wishes that he could have enforce his own bed time . 
but that is not the way it works , mr. speaker . 
until the core international labor organizations standards and strong environmental protections are included in the text of the agreement , we should all vote against these free trade agreements . 
if you trust the administration to tell you the truth , maybe you could vote for it then . 
but i think recent experience in the war , in torture , and other instances have shown us that those assertions are subject to question by reasonable people . 
so this agreement , like many other bills , helps big pharma . 
it does not do much for labor . 
it does nothing to assure us that we will have environmental safety in bahrain should they , god help us , ever run out of oil . 
and it seems to me that we are giving away a lot of our american rights . 
and i urge any of you just to remember the disagreement we had many years ago over china . 
and many of us said , the minute you give permanent most favored nation to china , you will never again be able to negotiate with them . 
look at the footage when our delegation was in china and the hands that went in front of the cameras as china prohibits free and open press coverage of what goes on there . 
until we are ready to get fair exchange for these free trade agreements , we are selling our american heritage . 
i urge a no vote on the bahrain free trade agreement . 
mr. speaker , i reserve the balance of my time . 
