mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding . 
the preceding speaker on the republican side said we have got to pass this , we have got to continue the pro-growth policies . 
she was talking specifically as she referenced capital gains and dividends . 
well , the fact is the very tax cuts that she is talking about remain in place . 
they are in existing law for 2006 , for 2007 , for 2008 . 
doing nothing keeps the very provisions she was hyperventilating about just a moment ago . 
but what is the matter then ? 
if we got them and we got them through 2008 , why not kick them out through 2009 and 2010 ? 
this is the reason . 
this is the national debt . 
this fall it went north of $ 8 trillion . 
i brought this chart to illustrate what a huge burden we are racking up for our children . 
this averages out to $ 27 , 000 of debt per person . 
and in this environment , the majority in bringing this bill to the floor today after yesterday 's vote will be passing $ 87 billion in additional tax cuts that are not paid for . 
alan greenspan has got some words of caution on this . 
he was quoted in november saying , we should not be cutting taxes by borrowing . 
well , when they do not pay for their tax cuts , they are basically borrowing , leaving the debt to our children to offset the funding of these tax cuts , just what greenspan warns against . 
earlier in the month of december , just last week , he says , an expected deficit casts an ever larger shadow over the growth of living standards . 
in the end , the consequences for the u.s. economy could be severe . 
the dirty little secret in this budget reconciliation plan is that it increases borrowing authority for this country nearly $ 1 trillion , from 750 to $ 780 billion of additional debt they will be authorizing to fund the tax cuts that they want to commence . 
as they talk about growth , do n't believe it . 
they would not have to increase the borrowing limit to this country if this all worked . 
they are adding to the debt to pass tax cuts disproportionately for the wealthiest . 
