mr. speaker , i appreciate again the gentlewoman yielding , and i appreciate her point that is so important that tax relief has driven job creation . 
you take away the tax relief , as our democrat colleagues are trying to do , and you end up taking away the jobs . 
let me again return to my congressional district . 
as i said earlier this evening , how proud i am that i have the honor of representing the fifth congressional district in texas . 
there is a small business there named hugh dublin , who has a company called east texas right of way . 
he has been in business for 8 years . 
he works hard . 
his company specializes in the leasing and purchasing of right of ways for different corporate clients . 
before we passed tax relief , his company had two full-time employees . 
that is a small business . 
but thanks to tax relief , his business expanded and he went out and hired two more . 
he hired a gentleman by the name of dan and another gentleman by the name of david . 
they were unemployed . 
but thanks to the tax relief package , they got jobs in a business that was growing . 
but yet this week , the democrats want to increase taxes on hugh dublin and east texas right of way . 
they want to take away the paychecks of dan and david and replace them with welfare checks , and they call that compassion . 
let me tell you another example . 
there is a gentleman in my congressional district named eddie alexander . 
he has a small business called triple s electric . 
it is an electrical contracting business for residential and commercial . 
for the past 3 1/2 years , he worked alone and he had one part-time helper . 
but thanks to the boom in the economy brought about by tax relief , and we have not even talked about the fact that we have the highest rate of homeownership in the history of america and each and every one of those homes needs electricity , since the economic growth package with tax relief was passed , he went out and hired two full-time employees . 
he hired a gentleman by the name of jarad , who was unemployed and he hired a gentleman by the name of john , who was also unemployed in henderson county , texas . 
now all of a sudden , the democrats want to raise taxes on eddie alexander and triple s electric . 
