mr. speaker , i would like to thank my friend and colleague on the rules committee for allowing me this opportunity to speak on behalf of this rule and the underlying bill , h.r. 4297 , the tax relief extension reconciliation act . 
today , each and every member of this house is taking a test before the american people . 
this test has one question , and simply enough , it is even multiple choice . 
the question is : who do you trust more to spend your hard-earned money ? 
is it , a , the federal government and its bloated bureaucracy ; or is it , b , the american people ? 
well , mr. speaker , the correct answer , obviously , is , b , the american people . 
however , those who vote against this rule and vote against this tax relief bill are choosing to trust the federal government and its bloated bureaucracy over the people who pay the taxes and are the engine of a job-creating economy . 
now , mr. speaker , the opponents of this tax relief will try to obscure and confuse this debate by mischaracterizing this house 's previous vote on budget reform and reduction with claims of , and i have already heard it , robbing the poor to pay the rich . 
well , mr. speaker , these claims are simply untrue . 
in fact , today 's reconciliation package includes extensions of tax incentives that provide work for many low-income americans , such as the welfare to work tax credit and the work opportunity tax credit that encourages businesses to hire and pay people and families on public assistance , high-risk youths , qualified veterans , and people who receive food stamps . 
so a vote against this tax relief package is tantamount to a vote for an economy under which it is acceptable and even preferred to give the poorest individuals only one option , government dependency , a dependency that empowers bureaucrats and politicians over people and places political power before economic liberty and opportunity . 
mr. speaker , i would also like to add that since this tax relief package includes mostly extensions of current tax cuts and credits , a vote against this bill is a vote simply to raise taxes . 
no ifs , ands , or buts , those who vote against this bill are voting in front of the american people to raise taxes . 
the opponents of this bill would raise taxes on middle-income americans , rich americans , poor americans , investors , savers , entrepreneurs , small business owners , universities , veterans , and even people who are trying to clean up the environment . 
all of these people will receive a tax increase if this bill is not passed and signed into law . 
so , mr. speaker , each and every member of this house has an opportunity today to go on record and tell the american people where they stand on raising taxes and whether they trust the american people with their own money . 
in conclusion , i would like to encourage my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying tax relief extension package for the sake of economic growth and for the sake of the american taxpayer . 
