well , i thank the gentleman from georgia for his insight , and i certainly appreciate his bringing the chart because it dramatically illustrates this phenomena : that if you will simply allow the american people to keep more of what they earn , allow small businesses to keep more of what they earn , they will roll up their sleeves and expand . 
they are going to go out and create a new transmission repair shop on one street corner or a new barbecue stand on another corner . 
somebody will have the capital to finally go out and maybe create the new generation of some revolutionary new software . 
but you can not have the benefits of capitalism without capital . 
and the democrats on this side of the aisle , they want to take away the people 's capital . 
they want to feed this wasteful washington bureaucracy . 
they want to grow the federal budget . 
we want to grow the family budget . 
and when we do , jobs are created . 
and guess what ? 
people go to work and they pay more taxes . 
as the gentleman knows , it is not just us creating figures out of thin air . 
it is not just somebody 's opinion . 
it is fact . 
i hold in my hand here the latest report from the u.s. treasury . 
this is the treasury report . 
what does it tell us ? 
it tells us that from last year individual income taxes , after we decreased the rates , we decreased the rates , guess what ? 
individual income tax revenues rose almost 15 percent . 
corporate income taxes . 
corporate income taxes . 
we cut their rates , and guess what ? 
they paid more taxes . 
there was almost 47 percent more tax revenue from corporate income taxes once we cut the rates . 
again , you can not have capitalism without capital . 
so what we need to do is we have to work this week to prevent that automatic democrat tax increase . 
increasing taxes , sending more money to washington , that is going to ultimately fuel our deficit . 
and the american people inherently know that when it comes to the fiscal challenges that we face , it is not because the american people are undertaxed ; it is because washington spends too much . 
