mr. speaker , unless we enact h.r. 4297 , americans will receive a most unwelcomed christmas gift from the democrats : a huge automatic tax increase . 
this will cost families billions of their dollars and jeopardize millions of their jobs . 
we can not sit idly by and let the democrats do this . 
tax relief has already created more than 4.4 million new jobs ; but if you raise taxes , you start taking these jobs away . 
mr. speaker , let me tell you about a few of the jobs from my east texas district that could be lost if the democrats succeed in their tax increase plan today . 
let me tell you about hugh dublin who owns east texas right of way in tennessee colony , texas . 
he specializes in the land-leasing business . 
due to tax relief , his company has grown from two full-time employees to four full-time employees and four part-timers . 
his two new full-time employees are named dan and david . 
they were unemployed , but now they are able to start new careers in a growing business . 
the democrats want to raise taxes on hugh dublin and his small business . 
they want to jeopardize dan 's and david 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks , and they call that compassion . 
eddie alexander owns triple s electric in henderson county , texas . 
they are an electrical contracting business . 
for the first 3 1/2 years he was in business , it was just him and one part-time helper . 
since the passage of the president 's economic growth plan , he has been able to hire two more additional employees named jarad and john , both of whom were out of work but both of whom now provide homes for their families . 
the democrats now want to raise taxes on eddie alexander and his small business . 
they want to jeopardize jarad 's and john 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks ; and this they call compassion . 
gill travers owns travers & amp ; company . 
they are a home building company in athens , texas . 
thanks to the housing boom created by president bush 's tax relief plan , travers & amp ; company has had to hire three new workers . 
jan , who was previously unemployed , was hired to help clean up the job sites . 
business is so good she had to turn around and hire calvin and christy . 
they were unemployed , too . 
the democrats now want to raise taxes on gill travers and his small business . 
they want to jeopardize jan , calvin , and christy 's paychecks and replace them with welfare checks ; and this they call compassion . 
mr. speaker , tax relief has created over 4.4 million new tax-paying jobs of the future ; 4.4 million hard-working americans can now provide for their families this christmas . 
more than just providing food and shelter , these jobs are providing newfound hope and opportunity . 
the democrats would take all of this away . 
we can not go back . 
we must prevent this massive democrat tax increase . 
we must support jobs and support the rule for h.r. 4297 . 
