mr. speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me time . 
last night , about 12 , 000 mississippians went to bed in somebody else 's house or in their carport or in their car or in their tent . 
they are waiting on a fema trailer . 
i did not promise them a fema trailer . 
the president of the united states did . 
he has not fulfilled that promise yet . 
it is over 102 days past the storm . 
as we speak , there are tens of thousands of mississippians , average joes , who are about to lose their house . 
see , they lived outside the flood plain . 
they had wind insurance , and a storm of magnitude that has not occurred in 300 years either destroyed or flooded their homes . 
now they have no home . 
they have a mortgage to pay , and their insurance company , which contributes heavily to the folks over there , says you are not getting a dime because that was water and not wind , but they will use any excuse they can . 
i have introduced legislation to try to help those folks , and it is expensive . 
it is going to cost about $ 5 billion to help those folks hang on to their homes and hang on to their mortgage ; and in 102 days we have not had a hearing or a vote on it . 
but if you are a member of the political contributor class , the guys who write the big checks to the rnc , guys who write a big check to a congressman here , senator there , we have got a vote on your tax cut that does not even expire for 3 years . 
you want to know what this house 's priorities are ? 
it is not with the average joes . 
it is with the political contributor class . 
you call them what you want . 
you can call them rich , but we all know it comes down to who writes the checks . 
by the way , the guy on coleman avenue whose house washed away , he does not write big checks . 
so maybe that is why you do not listen to him . 
it has been 102 days , and you have done nothing . 
there is no talk of doing anything . 
there are 12 , 000 mississippians waiting on a fema trailer . 
so what do you bring to the floor ? 
is it hurricane relief ? 
is it something to help the average joes ? 
it is a tax break for the wealthiest 1 percent of america who , by the way , write the big checks to the political parties . 
tell me your priorities are not screwed up , because i am going to tell you they are . 
