mr. speaker , i have to join the gentleman from massachusetts on his concern and dismay , frustration , and i think that outrage that the opportunity for a democratic substitute , first of all , to express some of the failures of this particular underlying bill and as well the opportunities to improve this legislation seemingly has been denied . 
i speak from a particularly unique perspective , mr. speaker , because my district contained enron , and the thousands of employees that , within hours of the bankruptcy filing by enron , lost not only their jobs but their lives , their homes and their future . 
i can not tell you the number of individuals in houston and the surrounding areas and other areas that were impacted , lost their lives , actually died because of the absolute oppression and outrage and the impact of what happened to them . 
and then we speak to the pensions and the investment of course in company stock . 
but this particular bill as it relates to the pension issue just does not go far enough because what it happens to do is it emphasizes the pension crisis , and it causes many of the companies , and i think those who are listening beyond the borders of this particular chamber should understand that this bill that will be voted on today really causes companies to freeze or abandon your pension plans . 
this does not encourage investment in your pension plans . 
it also denies the necessary flexibility and relief for airlines that unfortunately did not get in this bill , but is in the senate bill . 
any of us who fly the nation 's airways know that the flight attendants are constantly saying that we , after 20 years and 30 years , are being forced to give up our pension rights . 
why could we not come to the floor of the house and have a better plan ? 
this , of course , provides a funding crisis that is far worse . 
it increases the debt by $ 9 billion . 
it causes companies , it does not stop companies from dumping underfunded pension plans onto taxpayers . 
and so , if you want to look into the eyes of despair , just follow the track of enron when those particular employees who had bought into the seriousness and the depth of commitment called family that enron represented , and in a matter of a pen , in the matter of 48 hours , they were not only dumped , their pensions were dumped and they had nothing . 
what we should be doing in this instance is then ensuring and shoring up those liabilities or the potential of those liabilities and the negative impact it would have on people who work so very hard . 
i would ask my colleagues , we have enough time . 
there is time to continue this debate and to send this particular underlying bill back . 
there is time to make this bill compatible with the senate before it even leaves the house . 
there is time , i guess if we wanted to waive the points of order , to allow a democratic substitute . 
but this is not the route that we should be taking . 
and in the name of those who we pretended to be concerned about , not only the enron employees who spent almost 2 years with us here in the united states congress , but other employees and workers around america , i would ask my colleagues to send this bill back and make a better bill . 
