mr. speaker , i rise in strong support of this rule and of h.r. 2830 , the pension protection act of 2005 . 
i sincerely appreciate the strong leadership today of mr. hastings , as he is certainly presenting this in a very positive manner . 
i commend chairmen boehner and thomas for crafting just a comprehensive and necessary legislation . 
this measure will both preserve and strengthen our private sector , employer sponsored retirement system for both current and former retirees . 
this legislation , when enacted , will provide the most significant reform of our pension system since the initial passage of erisa in 1974 . 
this legislation will require higher levels of funding for single employer plans and provide the tools necessary to trustees , both labor and management , of multi-employer plans to more effectively deal with distressed plans . 
this legislation is the product of more than a year of hard work among congress , the executive branch and a broad coalition of employers , labor unions and retirement system advocates . 
this coalition strongly supports passage of the pension protection act of 2005 , and it will go a long way toward preserving the benefits of millions of american workers and their families . 
that is why it is so disheartening to see the democrats and their leader nancy pelosi continue their just say no obstructionism by urging their members to oppose this critical legislation . 
rather than support pension reform that would aid american workers , the democratic leadership continues its cynical and destructive strategy of opposing all substantive legislation in a futile attempt to influence public opinion against the republican congress . 
the opposition 's motives could not be more transparent on this issue . 
employers , including auto makers , airlines and manufacturers , along with labor unions , including the united auto workers , carpenters , united food and commercial workers all support this reform measure and have urged all members of congress to support passage of h.r. 2830 . 
for those members on the other side of the aisle who demonstrate courage and reject their leadership 's contemptuous call to oppose this legislation , you will be rewarded by the gratitude of your constituents and all americans for doing the right thing . 
i urge all members to support retirement security reform and vote yes on h.r. 2830 . 
