madam speaker , i thank the gentleman for yielding me this time . 
madam speaker , i see the chairman of the committee on education and the workforce is in the chamber . 
i want to give him initially a compliment . 
that committee has had a number of hearings . 
i believe the gentleman has wrestled with this issue , and i believe he has come up with a deeply flawed solution , but i give him credit for an initial effort . 
now on the other hand the chairman deserves much rebuke for tolerating the process that is unfolding here . 
madam speaker , getting pension funding fixed , getting this done correctly is a technically exacting proposition with enormous risks because if we miss the mark , pension plans are going to terminate . 
pension plans are going to freeze . 
millions of workers will lose their pension coverage . 
this is not a republican thing , it is not a democrat thing . 
trying to get this right ought to be a shared purpose , and so how dare you participate in a process that does not give us a substitute ? 
your way is not the only reasonable way . 
reasonable minds differ here . 
there are issues that we put forward in our substitute that were important for consideration by this body . 
the legislative process ought to be run with a fundamental fairness that allows the consideration of various issues . 
there are a lot of important constituencies watching this debate , and i want them to know that the chairman of the committee on education and the workforce complicit with the chairman of the ways and means committee complicit with the majority leadership of this body worked to shut down the process , to shut out the consideration of other views , to present only their way or the highway as an ultimate resolution of this issue . 
i firmly believe that healthy pension plans today will terminate or freeze their benefits for other workers going forward , because i believe this is a deeply flawed proposal , and i know there has been an effort to pick a group here and pick a group there and make a compromise here and make a compromise there , but the core of the bill is rotten and we could have had a much better result . 
shame on you for depriving us of our alternative . 
defeat this rule . 
